1 CHRONICLES 1
Historical Records From Adam to Abraham
To Noah’s Sons
1Adam, Seth, Enosh, 2Kenan, Mahalalel, Jared, 3Enoch, Methuselah, Lamech, Noah.
4The sons of Noah:
Shem, Ham and Japheth.
The Japhethites
5The sons of Japheth:
Gomer, Magog, Madai, Javan, Tubal, Meshek and Tiras.
6The sons of Gomer:
Ashkenaz, Riphath and Togarmah.
7The sons of Javan:
Elishah, Tarshish, the Kittites and the Rodanites.
The Hamites
8The sons of Ham:
Cush, Egypt, Put and Canaan.
9The sons of Cush:
Seba, Havilah, Sabta, Raamah and Sabteka.
The sons of Raamah:
Sheba and Dedan.
10Cush was the father of
Nimrod, who became a mighty warrior on earth.
11Egypt was the father of
the Ludites, Anamites, Lehabites, Naphtuhites, 12Pathrusites, Kasluhites (from whom the Philistines came) and Caphtorites.
13Canaan was the father of
Sidon his firstborn, and of the Hittites, 14Jebusites, Amorites, Girgashites, 15Hivites, Arkites, Sinites, 16Arvadites, Zemarites and Hamathites.
The Semites
17The sons of Shem:
Elam, Ashur, Arphaxad, Lud and Aram.
The sons of Aram:
Uz, Hul, Gether and Meshek.
18Arphaxad was the father of Shelah,
and Shelah the father of Eber.
19Two sons were born to Eber:
One was named Peleg, because in his time the earth was divided; his brother was named Joktan.
20Joktan was the father of
Almodad, Sheleph, Hazarmaveth, Jerah, 21Hadoram, Uzal, Diklah, 22Obal, Abimael, Sheba, 23Ophir, Havilah and Jobab. All these were sons of Joktan.
24Shem, Arphaxad, Shelah,
25Eber, Peleg, Reu,
26Serug, Nahor, Terah
27and Abram (that is, Abraham).
The Family of Abraham
28The sons of Abraham:
Isaac and Ishmael.
Descendants of Hagar
29These were their descendants:
Nebaioth the firstborn of Ishmael, Kedar, Adbeel, Mibsam, 30Mishma, Dumah, Massa, Hadad, Tema, 31Jetur, Naphish and Kedemah. These were the sons of Ishmael.
Descendants of Keturah
32The sons born to Keturah, Abraham’s concubine:
Zimran, Jokshan, Medan, Midian, Ishbak and Shuah.
The sons of Jokshan:
Sheba and Dedan.
33The sons of Midian:
Ephah, Epher, Hanok, Abida and Eldaah.
All these were descendants of Keturah.
Descendants of Sarah
34Abraham was the father of Isaac.
The sons of Isaac:
Esau and Israel.
Esau’s Sons
35The sons of Esau:
Eliphaz, Reuel, Jeush, Jalam and Korah.
36The sons of Eliphaz:
Teman, Omar, Zepho, Gatam and Kenaz;
by Timna: Amalek.
37The sons of Reuel:
Nahath, Zerah, Shammah and Mizzah.
The People of Seir in Edom
38The sons of Seir:
Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Anah, Dishon, Ezer and Dishan.
39The sons of Lotan:
Hori and Homam. Timna was Lotan’s sister.
40The sons of Shobal:
Alvan, Manahath, Ebal, Shepho and Onam.
The sons of Zibeon:
Aiah and Anah.
41The son of Anah:
Dishon.
The sons of Dishon:
Hemdan, Eshban, Ithran and Keran.
42The sons of Ezer:
Bilhan, Zaavan and Akan.
The sons of Dishan:
Uz and Aran.
The Rulers of Edom
43These were the kings who reigned in Edom before any Israelite king reigned:
Bela son of Beor, whose city was named Dinhabah.
44When Bela died, Jobab son of Zerah from Bozrah succeeded him as king.
45When Jobab died, Husham from the land of the Temanites succeeded him as king.
46When Husham died, Hadad son of Bedad, who defeated Midian in the country of Moab, succeeded him as king. His city was named Avith.
47When Hadad died, Samlah from Masrekah succeeded him as king.
48When Samlah died, Shaul from Rehoboth on the river succeeded him as king.
49When Shaul died, Baal-Hanan son of Akbor succeeded him as king.
50When Baal-Hanan died, Hadad succeeded him as king. His city was named Pau, and his wife’s name was Mehetabel daughter of Matred, the daughter of Me-Zahab. 51Hadad also died.
The chiefs of Edom were:
Timna, Alvah, Jetheth, 52Oholibamah, Elah, Pinon, 53Kenaz, Teman, Mibzar, 54Magdiel and Iram. These were the chiefs of Edom.