PROVERBS 15
1A gentle answer turns away wrath,
but a harsh word stirs up anger.
2The tongue of the wise adorns knowledge,
but the mouth of the fool gushes folly.
3The eyes of the Lord are everywhere,
keeping watch on the wicked and the good.
4The soothing tongue is a tree of life,
but a perverse tongue crushes the spirit.
5A fool spurns a parent’s discipline,
but whoever heeds correction shows prudence.
6The house of the righteous contains great treasure,
but the income of the wicked brings ruin.
7The lips of the wise spread knowledge,
but the hearts of fools are not upright.
8The Lord detests the sacrifice of the wicked,
but the prayer of the upright pleases him.
9The Lord detests the way of the wicked,
but he loves those who pursue righteousness.
10Stern discipline awaits anyone who leaves the path;
the one who hates correction will die.
11Death and Destruction lie open before the Lord—
how much more do human hearts!
12Mockers resent correction,
so they avoid the wise.
13A happy heart makes the face cheerful,
but heartache crushes the spirit.
14The discerning heart seeks knowledge,
but the mouth of a fool feeds on folly.
15All the days of the oppressed are wretched,
but the cheerful heart has a continual feast.
16Better a little with the fear of the Lord
than great wealth with turmoil.
17Better a small serving of vegetables with love
than a fattened calf with hatred.
18A hot-tempered person stirs up conflict,
but the one who is patient calms a quarrel.
19The way of the sluggard is blocked with thorns,
but the path of the upright is a highway.
20A wise son brings joy to his father,
but a foolish man despises his mother.
21Folly brings joy to one who has no sense,
but whoever has understanding keeps a straight course.
22Plans fail for lack of counsel,
but with many advisers they succeed.
23A person finds joy in giving an apt reply—
and how good is a timely word!
24The path of life leads upward for the prudent
to keep them from going down to the realm of the dead.
25The Lord tears down the house of the proud,
but he sets the widow’s boundary stones in place.
26The Lord detests the thoughts of the wicked,
but gracious words are pure in his sight.
27The greedy bring ruin to their households,
but the one who hates bribes will live.
28The heart of the righteous weighs its answers,
but the mouth of the wicked gushes evil.
29The Lord is far from the wicked,
but he hears the prayer of the righteous.
30Light in a messenger’s eyes brings joy to the heart,
and good news gives health to the bones.
31Whoever heeds life-giving correction
will be at home among the wise.
32Those who disregard discipline despise themselves,
but the one who heeds correction gains understanding.
33Wisdom’s instruction is to fear the Lord,
and humility comes before honor.