1 CHRONICLES 16
Ministering Before the Ark
1They brought the ark of God and set it inside the tent that David had pitched for it, and they presented burnt offerings and fellowship offerings before God. 2After David had finished sacrificing the burnt offerings and fellowship offerings, he blessed the people in the name of the Lord. 3Then he gave a loaf of bread, a cake of dates and a cake of raisins to each Israelite man and woman.
4He appointed some of the Levites to minister before the ark of the Lord, to extol, thank, and praise the Lord, the God of Israel: 5Asaph was the chief, and next to him in rank were Zechariah, then Jaaziel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Mattithiah, Eliab, Benaiah, Obed-Edom and Jeiel. They were to play the lyres and harps, Asaph was to sound the cymbals, 6and Benaiah and Jahaziel the priests were to blow the trumpets regularly before the ark of the covenant of God.
7That day David first appointed Asaph and his associates to give praise to the Lord in this manner:
8Give praise to the Lord, proclaim his name;
make known among the nations what he has done.
9Sing to him, sing praise to him;
tell of all his wonderful acts.
10Glory in his holy name;
let the hearts of those who seek the Lord rejoice.
11Look to the Lord and his strength;
seek his face always.
12Remember the wonders he has done,
his miracles, and the judgments he pronounced,
13you his servants, the descendants of Israel,
his chosen ones, the children of Jacob.
14He is the Lord our God;
his judgments are in all the earth.
15He remembers his covenant forever,
the promise he made, for a thousand generations,
16the covenant he made with Abraham,
the oath he swore to Isaac.
17He confirmed it to Jacob as a decree,
to Israel as an everlasting covenant:
18“To you I will give the land of Canaan
as the portion you will inherit.”
19When they were but few in number,
few indeed, and strangers in it,
20they wandered from nation to nation,
from one kingdom to another.
21He allowed no one to oppress them;
for their sake he rebuked kings:
22“Do not touch my anointed ones;
do my prophets no harm.”
23Sing to the Lord, all the earth;
proclaim his salvation day after day.
24Declare his glory among the nations,
his marvelous deeds among all peoples.
25For great is the Lord and most worthy of praise;
he is to be feared above all gods.
26For all the gods of the nations are idols,
but the Lord made the heavens.
27Splendor and majesty are before him;
strength and joy are in his dwelling place.
28Ascribe to the Lord, all you families of nations,
ascribe to the Lord glory and strength.
29Ascribe to the Lord the glory due his name;
bring an offering and come before him.
Worship the Lord in the splendor of his holiness.
30Tremble before him, all the earth!
The world is firmly established; it cannot be moved.
31Let the heavens rejoice, let the earth be glad;
let them say among the nations, “The Lord reigns!”
32Let the sea resound, and all that is in it;
let the fields be jubilant, and everything in them!
33Let the trees of the forest sing,
let them sing for joy before the Lord,
for he comes to judge the earth.
34Give thanks to the Lord, for he is good;
his love endures forever.
35Cry out, “Save us, God our Savior;
gather us and deliver us from the nations,
that we may give thanks to your holy name,
and glory in your praise.”
36Praise be to the Lord, the God of Israel,
from everlasting to everlasting.
Then all the people said “Amen” and “Praise the Lord.”
37David left Asaph and his associates before the ark of the covenant of the Lord to minister there regularly, according to each day’s requirements. 38He also left Obed-Edom and his sixty-eight associates to minister with them. Obed-Edom son of Jeduthun, and also Hosah, were gatekeepers.
39David left Zadok the priest and his fellow priests before the tabernacle of the Lord at the high place in Gibeon 40to present burnt offerings to the Lord on the altar of burnt offering regularly, morning and evening, in accordance with everything written in the Law of the Lord, which he had given Israel. 41With them were Heman and Jeduthun and the rest of those chosen and designated by name to give thanks to the Lord, “for his love endures forever.” 42Heman and Jeduthun were responsible for the sounding of the trumpets and cymbals and for the playing of the other instruments for sacred song. The sons of Jeduthun were stationed at the gate.
43Then all the people left, each for their own home, and David returned home to bless his family.