PROVERBS 12
1Whoever loves discipline loves knowledge,
but whoever hates correction is stupid.
2Good people obtain favor from the Lord,
but he condemns those who devise wicked schemes.
3No one can be established through wickedness,
but the righteous cannot be uprooted.
4A wife of noble character is her husband’s crown,
but a disgraceful wife is like decay in his bones.
5The plans of the righteous are just,
but the advice of the wicked is deceitful.
6The words of the wicked lie in wait for blood,
but the speech of the upright rescues them.
7The wicked are overthrown and are no more,
but the house of the righteous stands firm.
8A person is praised according to their prudence,
and one with a warped mind is despised.
9Better to be a nobody and yet have a servant
than pretend to be somebody and have no food.
10The righteous care for the needs of their animals,
but the kindest acts of the wicked are cruel.
11Those who work their land will have abundant food,
but those who chase fantasies have no sense.
12The wicked desire the stronghold of evildoers,
but the root of the righteous endures.
13Evildoers are trapped by their sinful talk,
and so the innocent escape trouble.
14From the fruit of their lips people are filled with good things,
and the work of their hands brings them reward.
15The way of fools seems right to them,
but the wise listen to advice.
16Fools show their annoyance at once,
but the prudent overlook an insult.
17An honest witness tells the truth,
but a false witness tells lies.
18The words of the reckless pierce like swords,
but the tongue of the wise brings healing.
19Truthful lips endure forever,
but a lying tongue lasts only a moment.
20Deceit is in the hearts of those who plot evil,
but those who promote peace have joy.
21No harm overtakes the righteous,
but the wicked have their fill of trouble.
22The Lord detests lying lips,
but he delights in people who are trustworthy.
23The prudent keep their knowledge to themselves,
but a fool’s heart blurts out folly.
24Diligent hands will rule,
but laziness ends in forced labor.
25Anxiety weighs down the heart,
but a kind word cheers it up.
26The righteous choose their friends carefully,
but the way of the wicked leads them astray.
27The lazy do not roast any game,
but the diligent feed on the riches of the hunt.
28In the way of righteousness there is life;
along that path is immortality.