My beloved brothers and sisters, as we welcome you to this historic April 2020 general conference of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, for reasons you know, I stand before you in an empty auditorium!Little did I know, when I promised you at the October 2019 general conference that this April conference would be “memorable” and “unforgettable,” that speaking to a visible congregation of fewer than 10 people would make this conference so memorable and unforgettable for me!
Yet the knowledge that you are participating by electronic transmission, and the choir’s beautiful rendition of “It Is Well with My Soul,” bring great comfort to my soul.As you know, attendance at this general conference has been strictly limited as part of our efforts to be good global citizens and do all we can to limit the spread of COVID-19.
This virus has had a major impact throughout the world.
It has also altered our Church meetings, missionary service, and temple work for a while.Though today’s restrictions relate to a virulent virus, life’s personal trials stretch far beyond this pandemic.
Future trials could result from an accident, a natural disaster, or an unexpected personal heartache.How can we endure such trials?
The Lord has told us that “if ye are prepared ye shall not fear.”1 Of course, we can store our own reserves of food, water, and savings.
But equally crucial is our need to fill our personal spiritual storehouses with faith, truth, and testimony.Our ultimate quest in life is to prepare to meet our Maker.
We do this by striving daily to become more like our Savior, Jesus Christ.2 And we do that as we repent daily and receive His cleansing, healing, and strengthening power.
Then we can feel enduring peace and joy, even during turbulent times.
This is exactly why the Lord has implored us to stand in holy places and “be not moved.”3This year, we commemorate the 200th anniversary of one of the most significant events in the history of the world—namely, the appearance of God the Father and His Beloved Son, Jesus Christ, to Joseph Smith.
During that singular vision, God the Father pointed to Jesus Christ and said: “This is My Beloved Son.
Hear Him!”4That admonition given to Joseph is for each of us.
We are to seek, in every way we can, to hear Jesus Christ, who speaks to us through the power and ministering of the Holy Ghost.The purpose of this and every general conference is to help us to hear Him.
We have prayed, and invite you to pray, that the Spirit of the Lord will be with us in such rich abundance that you can hear the messages that the Savior has especially for you—messages that will bring peace to your soul.
Messages that will heal your broken heart.
Messages that will illuminate your mind.
Messages that will help you know what to do as you move ahead through times of turmoil and trial.We pray that this conference will be memorable and unforgettable because of the messages you will hear, the unique announcements which will be made, and the experiences in which you will be invited to participate.For example, at the conclusion of the Sunday morning session, we will convene a worldwide solemn assembly when I will lead you in the sacred Hosanna Shout.
We pray that this will be a spiritual highlight for you as we express in global unison our profound gratitude to God the Father and His Beloved Son by praising Them in this unique way.For this sacred experience, we use clean white handkerchiefs.
But if you do not have one, you may simply wave your hand.
At the conclusion of the Hosanna Shout, the congregation will join with the choir in singing “The Spirit of God.”5My dear brothers and sisters, this conference will be magnificent.
This year will be extraordinary as we focus intently on the Savior and His restored gospel.
The most important lasting effects of this historic conference will be as our hearts change and we commence a lifelong quest to hear Him.Welcome to April 2020 general conference!
I know that God, our Heavenly Father, and His Son, Jesus Christ, are mindful of us.
They will be with us throughout the proceedings of these two glorious days as we seek to draw closer to Them and honor Them.
In the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.
I once saw a sign in a store window that said, “Happiness, $15.00.” I was so curious to know how much happiness I could buy for $15 that I went inside to see.
What I found was a lot of cheap trinkets and souvenirs—not one thing I saw could possibly bring me the type of happiness that the sign implied!
Over the years, I’ve thought many times about that sign and how easy it can be to look for happiness in items that are cheap or temporary.
As members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, we are blessed to know how and where true happiness is found.
It is found in carefully living the gospel established by our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, and in striving to become more like Him.We have a dear friend who was a train engineer.
One day while he was driving a train on his route, he spotted a car stopped on the track ahead of him.
He quickly realized that the car was stuck and unable to cross the track.
He immediately put the train in emergency mode, which engaged the brakes on each boxcar that extended three-quarters of a mile (1.2 km) behind the engine, carrying a load of 6,500 tons (5,900 metric tons).
There was no physical chance that the train would be able to stop before it hit the car, which it did.
Fortunately for the people in the car, they heard the warning of the train whistle and escaped from the car before the impact.
As the engineer spoke with the investigating police officer, an angry woman approached them.
She shouted that she had seen the whole incident and then testified that the engineer did not even try to swerve out of the way to miss the car!Obviously, if the engineer had been able to swerve and leave the tracks to avoid an accident, he and his entire train would have been lost in a derailment and the train’s forward progress would have come to an abrupt stop.
Fortunately for him, the rails of the tracks on which his train ran kept the wheels of the train snugly moving toward its destination regardless of the obstacle in his way.
Fortunately for us, we too are on a track, a covenant path we committed to when we were baptized as members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
Although we may encounter occasional obstacles along the way, this path will keep us moving toward our prized eternal destination if we stay firmly on it.The vision of the tree of life shows us how the effects of casualness can lead us away from the covenant path.
Consider that the rod of iron and the strait and narrow path, or the covenant path, led directly to the tree of life, where all the blessings provided by our Savior and His Atonement are available to the faithful.
Also seen in the vision was a river of water representing the filthiness of the world.
The scriptures describe that this river “ran along” the path yet passed only “near” the tree, not to it.
The world is laden with distractions that can deceive even the elect, causing them to be casual in living their covenants—thus leading them near the tree, but not to it.
If we are not careful in living our covenants with exactness, our casual efforts may eventually lead us into forbidden paths or to join with those who have already entered the great and spacious building.
If not careful, we may even drown in the depths of a filthy river.1There is a careful way and a casual way to do everything, including living the gospel.
As we consider our commitment to the Savior, are we careful or casual?
Because of our mortal nature, don’t we sometimes rationalize our behavior, at times referring to our actions as being in the gray, or mixing good with something that’s not so good?
Anytime we say, “however,” “except,” or “but” when it applies to following the counsel of our prophet leaders or living the gospel carefully, we are in fact saying, “That counsel does not apply to me.” We can rationalize all we want, but the fact is, there is not a right way to do the wrong thing!The youth theme for 2019 is taken from John 14:15, where the Lord instructs, “If ye love me, keep my commandments.” If we love Him as we claim, can’t we show that love by being a little more careful in living His commandments?Being careful in living the gospel does not necessarily mean being formal or stuffy.
What it does mean is being appropriate in our thoughts and behavior as disciples of Jesus Christ.
As we ponder the difference between careful and casual in our gospel living, here are some thoughts to consider:Are we careful in our Sabbath-day worship and in our preparation to partake of the sacrament each week?Could we be more careful in our prayers and scripture study or be more actively engaged in Come, Follow Me—For Individuals and Families?Are we careful in our temple worship, and do we carefully and deliberately live the covenants we made both at baptism and in the temple?
Are we careful in our appearance and modest in our dress, especially in sacred places and circumstances?
Are we careful in how we wear the sacred temple garments?
Or do the fashions of the world dictate a more casual attitude?Are we careful in how we minister to others and in how we fulfill our callings in the Church, or are we indifferent or casual in our call to serve?Are we careful or casual in what we read and what we watch on TV and our mobile devices?
Are we careful in our language?
Or do we casually embrace the crude and vulgar?The For the Strength of Youth pamphlet contains standards that, when followed carefully, will bring rich blessings and help us stay on the covenant path.
Although it was written for the benefit of the youth, its standards do not expire when we leave the Young Men and Young Women programs.
They apply to each of us all the time.
A review of these standards may prompt other ways we can be more careful in our gospel living.We do not lower our standards to fit in or to make someone else feel comfortable.
We are disciples of Jesus Christ, and as such we are about elevating others, lifting them to a higher, holier place where they too can reap greater blessings.I invite each of us to seek the guidance of the Holy Ghost to know what adjustments we need to make in our lives to be more carefully aligned with our covenants.
I also plead with you not to be critical of others making this same journey.
“Judgment is mine, saith the Lord.”2 We are each in the process of growth and change.The story told in the Book of Mormon about the apostate Amlicites is interesting to me.
As a way of noting to others that they were no longer associated with Jesus Christ and His Church, they put a distinct mark of red on their foreheads for all to see.3 In an opposite way, and as disciples of Jesus Christ, how do we mark ourselves?
Can others easily see His image in our countenance and know who we represent by the way we carefully conduct our lives?As a covenant people, we are not meant to blend in with the rest of the world.
We have been called “a peculiar people”4—what a compliment!
As the influences of the world increasingly embrace the evil, we must strive with all diligence to stay firmly on the path that leads us safely to our Savior, widening the distance between our covenant living and worldly influences.As I reflect upon obtaining lasting happiness, I realize that sometimes we do find ourselves in the gray.
Mists of darkness are inevitable as we journey along the covenant path.
Temptation and casualness can cause us to subtly divert our course into the darkness of the world and away from the covenant path.
For the times when this might happen, our beloved prophet, President Russell M. Nelson, has urged us to get back on the covenant path and to do so quickly.
How grateful I am for the gift of repentance and for the power of our Savior’s Atonement.It’s impossible to live a perfect life.
Only one man was able to live perfectly while dwelling on this telestial planet.
That was Jesus Christ.
Although we may not be perfect, brothers and sisters, we can be worthy: worthy to partake of the sacrament, worthy of temple blessings, and worthy to receive personal revelation.King Benjamin testified of the blessings and happiness that come to those who carefully follow the Savior: “And moreover, I would desire that ye should consider on the blessed and happy state of those that keep the commandments of God.
For behold, they are blessed in all things, both temporal and spiritual; and if they hold out faithful to the end they are received into heaven, that thereby they may dwell with God in a state of never-ending happiness.”5Can happiness be bought with $15?
No, it can’t.
Deep and lasting happiness comes by intentionally and carefully living the gospel of Jesus Christ.
In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
Throughout the ages, God has spoken through His servants, the prophets.1 This morning we have had the privilege to hear the prophet of God speak to all the world.
We love you, President Nelson, and I encourage everyone everywhere to study and heed your words.Before I reached my 12th birthday, our family had been forced twice to flee our home and start over amid the chaos, fear, and uncertainties caused by war and political division.
It was an anxious time for me, but it must have been terrifying for my beloved parents.My mother and father shared little about this burden with us four children.
They bore the strain and suffering as best they could.
The fear must have been oppressive, consuming their hours and dampening their hope.This time of bleakness after World War II left its mark upon the world.
It left its mark upon me.Back then, in the solitude of my loneliest hours, I often wondered, “Is there any hope left in the world?”Angels among UsAs I pondered this question, I thought about our young American missionaries who served among us during those years.
They had left the safety of their homes half a world away and traveled to Germany—land of their recent enemies—to offer divine hope to our people.
They came not to blame, lecture, or shame.
They willingly gave of their young lives without thought of earthly gain, wanting only to help others find the joy and peace they had experienced.To me, these young men and women were perfect.
I am sure they had flaws, but not to me.
I will always think of them as being bigger than life—angels of light and glory, ministers of compassion, goodness, and truth.While the world was drowning in cynicism, bitterness, hatred, and fear, the example and teachings of these young people filled me with hope.
The gospel message they offered transcended politics, history, grudges, grievances, and personal agendas.
It gave divine answers to important questions we had during these difficult times.The message was that God lived and cared about us, even in these hours of turmoil, confusion, and chaos.
That He actually appeared in our time to restore truth and light—His gospel and His Church.
That He speaks to prophets again; that God is among us—and is personally involved in our lives and actively guiding His children.It is astonishing what we can learn when we look a little closer at our Heavenly Father’s plan of salvation and exaltation, the plan of happiness, for His children.
When we feel insignificant, cast off, and forgotten, we learn that we may be assured that God has not forgotten us—in fact, that He offers to all His children something unimaginable: to become “heirs of God, and joint-heirs with Christ.”2What does this mean?That we will live forever, receive a fulness of joy,3 and have the potential to “inherit thrones, kingdoms, principalities, and powers.”4It is so humbling to know that this magnificent and supernal future is possible—not because of who we are but because of who God is.Knowing this, how could we ever murmur or remain embittered?
How could we ever keep our eyes on the ground when the King of kings invites us to take flight into an unimaginable future of divine happiness?5Salvation among UsBecause of God’s perfect love for us and the eternal sacrifice of Jesus Christ, our sins—both great and small—can be blotted out and remembered no more.6 We can stand before Him pure, worthy, and sanctified.My heart overflows with gratitude for my Heavenly Father.
I realize that He has not doomed His children to stumble through mortality without hope for a bright and eternal future.
He has provided instructions that reveal the way back to Him.
And at the center of it all is His Beloved Son, Jesus Christ,7 and His sacrifice for us.The Savior’s infinite Atonement completely changes the way we may view our transgressions and imperfections.
Instead of dwelling on them and feeling irredeemable or hopeless, we can learn from them and feel hopeful.8 The cleansing gift of repentance allows us to leave our sins behind and emerge a new creature.9Because of Jesus Christ, our failures do not have to define us.
They can refine us.Like a musician rehearsing scales, we can see our missteps, flaws, and sins as opportunities for greater self-awareness, deeper and more honest love for others, and refinement through repentance.If we repent, mistakes do not disqualify us.
They are part of our progress.We are all infants compared to the beings of glory and grandeur we are designed to become.
No mortal being advances from crawling to walking to running without frequent stumbles, bumps, and bruises.
That is how we learn.If we earnestly keep practicing, always striving to keep God’s commandments, and committing our efforts to repenting, enduring, and applying what we learn, line upon line, we will gather light into our souls.10 And though we may not fully comprehend our full potential now, “we know that, when [the Savior] shall appear,” we will see His countenance in us and “shall see him as he is.”11What a glorious promise!Yes, the world is in turmoil.
And yes, we have weaknesses.
But we do not need to hang our heads in despair, because we can trust God, we can trust His Son, Jesus Christ, and we can accept the gift of the Spirit to guide us on this path toward a life filled with joy and divine happiness.12Jesus among UsI often have wondered, What would Jesus teach and do if He were among us today?After the Resurrection, Jesus Christ fulfilled His promise to visit His “other sheep.”13The Book of Mormon: Another Testament of Jesus Christ speaks of such an appearance to the people on the American continent.
We have this precious record as a tangible witness of the Savior’s work.The people of the Book of Mormon lived on the other side of the globe—their histories, cultures, and political climates were vastly different from the people Jesus taught during His mortal ministry.
And yet He taught them many of the same things He taught in the Holy Land.Why would He do that?The Savior always teaches timeless truths.
They apply to people of every age and in any circumstance.His message was and is a message of hope and belonging—a testimony that God our Heavenly Father has not abandoned His children.That God is among us!Two hundred years ago, the Savior again returned to earth.
Together with God the Father, He appeared to a 14-year-old Joseph Smith and ushered in the Restoration of the gospel and the Church of Jesus Christ.
From that day forward, the heavens opened, and heavenly messengers descended from halls of immortal glory.
Light and knowledge poured forth from the celestial throne.The Lord Jesus Christ spoke once again to the world.What did He say?To our blessing, many of His words are recorded in the Doctrine and Covenants—available to anyone in the world who wishes to read and study them.
How priceless are these words to us today!And we should not be surprised to find that the Savior again teaches the core message of His gospel: “Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy might, mind, and strength; and in the name of Jesus Christ thou shalt serve him.”14 He inspires us to seek God15 and live by the teachings He has revealed to His servants, the prophets.16He teaches us to love one another17 and to be “full of charity towards all men.”18He invites us to be His hands, to go about doing good.19 “Let us not love in word … but in deed and in truth.”20He challenges us to heed His great commission: to love, to share, to invite all to His gospel and His Church.21He commands us to build holy temples and to enter and serve there.22He teaches us to become His disciples—that our hearts should not strive for personal power, wealth, approval, or position.
He teaches us to “lay aside the things of this world, and seek for the things of a better.”23He urges us to seek joy, enlightenment, peace, truth, happiness,24 and the promise of immortality and eternal life.25Let us take this a step further.
Suppose Jesus came to your ward, to your branch, or to your home today.
What would that be like?He would see right into your heart.
Outward appearances would lose their importance.
He would know you as you are.
He would know your heart’s desires.The meek and the humble He would lift.The sick He would heal.The doubting He would infuse with faith and courage to believe.He would teach us to open our hearts to God and reach out to others.He would recognize and honor honesty, humility, integrity, faithfulness, compassion, and charity.One look into His eyes and we would never be the same.
We would be forever changed.
Transformed by the profound realization that, indeed, God is among us.What Shall We Do?26I look back with kindness on the young man I was during my growing-up years.
If I could go back in time, I would comfort him and tell him to stay on the right track and keep searching.
And I would ask him to invite Jesus Christ into his life, for God is among us!To you, my dear brothers and sisters, my dear friends, and to all who are searching for answers, truth, and happiness, I do offer the same counsel: keep searching with faith and patience.27Ask, and you will receive.
Knock, and it will be opened unto you.28 Trust the Lord.29In our daily life it is our paramount task and blessed opportunity to encounter God.As we set aside pride and approach His throne with a broken heart and a contrite spirit,30 He will draw near to us.31As we seek to follow Jesus Christ and walk the path of discipleship, line upon line, the day will come that we will experience that unimaginable gift of receiving a fulness of joy.My beloved friends, your Heavenly Father loves you with a perfect love.
He has proven His love in endless ways, but above all by giving His Only Begotten Son as a sacrifice and as a gift to His children to make the return to our heavenly parents a reality.I bear witness that our Heavenly Father lives, that Jesus Christ leads His Church, that President Russell M. Nelson is His prophet.I extend to you my love and blessing at this joyful Easter season.
Open your hearts to our Savior and Redeemer, no matter your circumstances, trials, sufferings, or mistakes; you can know that He lives, that He loves you, and that because of Him, you will never be alone.God is among us.Of this I testify and bear witness in the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.
Somewhat hidden in the Old Testament book of Haggai is a description of a group of people who could have used Elder Holland’s counsel.
They got it wrong by not placing Christ at the center of their lives and their service.
Haggai paints some thought-provoking word pictures as he reprimands these people for staying in their comfortable houses instead of building the Lord’s temple:“Is it time for you, O ye, to dwell in your ceiled houses, and this house lie waste?“Now therefore thus saith the Lord of hosts; Consider your ways.“Ye have sown much, and bring in little; ye eat, but ye have not enough; ye drink, but ye are not filled with drink; ye clothe you, but there is none warm; and he that earneth wages earneth wages to put it into a bag with holes.“Thus saith the Lord of hosts; Consider your ways.”1Don’t you love those descriptions of the futility of prioritizing things of no eternal consequence above the things of God?In a recent sacrament meeting I attended, a returned missionary quoted a father who summed up this idea perfectly when he said to his children, “What we need here is less Wi-Fi and more Nephi!”Having lived in West Africa for five years, I saw plenty of examples of people prioritizing the gospel naturally and unashamedly.
One such example is the name of a tire repair and wheel balancing business in Ghana.
The owner has named it “Thy Will Alignment.”We can feel enduring joy2 when our Savior and His gospel become the framework around which we build our lives.
However, it’s so easy for that framework to become, instead, the things of the world, where the gospel sits as an optional extra or as simply attending church for two hours on Sundays.
When this is the case, it is tantamount to putting our wages into “a bag with holes.”Haggai is telling us to be committed—to be, as we say in Australia, “fair dinkum” about living the gospel.
People are fair dinkum when they are what they say they are.I learned a little about being fair dinkum and being committed by playing rugby.
I learned that when I played my hardest, when I gave my all, my enjoyment of the game was greatest.My favorite year of rugby was the year after high school.
The team of which I was a member was both talented and committed.
We were the champion team that year.
However, one day we were to play a lowly ranked team, and after the game we all had dates to take to the big, annual college dance.
I thought that because this would be an easy game, I should try to protect myself from injury so I would be able to enjoy the dance fully.
In that game, we were not as committed in the hard contacts as we might have been, and we lost.
To make things worse, I ended the match with a very swollen, fat lip that did not enhance my appearance for my big date.
Perhaps I needed to learn something.A very different experience occurred in a later game in which I was totally committed.
At one point I ran with real intent into a contact; immediately I felt some pain in my face.
Having been taught by my father that I should never let the opposition know if I was hurt, I continued to play out the game.
That night, while trying to eat, I found that I couldn’t bite.
The next morning, I went to the hospital, where an X-ray confirmed that my jaw was broken.
My mouth was wired shut for the next six weeks.Lessons were learned from this parable of the fat lip and the broken jaw.
Despite my memories of unsatisfied cravings for solid food during the six weeks when I could ingest only liquids, I feel no regrets about my broken jaw because it resulted from my giving my all.
But I do have regrets about the fat lip because it symbolized my holding back.Giving our all doesn’t mean that we will be continually enveloped in blessings or always have success.
But it does mean that we will have joy.
Joy is not fleeting pleasure or even temporary happiness.
Joy is enduring and is founded on our efforts being accepted by the Lord.3An example of such acceptance is the story of Oliver Granger.
As President Boyd K. Packer stated: “When the Saints were driven from Kirtland, … Oliver was left behind to sell their properties for what little he could.
There was not much chance that he could succeed.
And, really, he did not succeed!”4 He had been commissioned by the First Presidency to do a task that was difficult, if not impossible.
But the Lord commended him for his apparently unsuccessful efforts in these words:“I remember my servant Oliver Granger; behold, verily I say unto him that his name shall be had in sacred remembrance from generation to generation, forever and ever, saith the Lord.“Therefore, let him contend earnestly for the redemption of the First Presidency of my Church, … and when he falls he shall rise again, for his sacrifice shall be more sacred unto me than his increase, saith the Lord.”5That may be true of all of us—it’s not our successes but rather our sacrifice and efforts that matter to the Lord.Another example of a true disciple of Jesus Christ is a dear friend of ours in Côte d’Ivoire in West Africa.
This wonderful, faithful sister suffered terrible emotional, and even some physical, abuse from her husband over a sustained period of time, and eventually they divorced.
She never wavered in her faith and goodness, but because of his cruelty to her, she was deeply hurt for a long time.
In her own words, she describes what happened:“Though I said I forgave him, I always slept with a wound; I spent my days with that wound.
It was like a burn in my heart.
Many times I prayed to the Lord to take it away from me, but it hurt so bad that I strongly believed I was going to spend the rest of my life with it.
It hurt more than when I lost my mom at a young age; it hurt more than when I lost my dad and even my son.
It seemed to expand and cover my heart, giving me the impression I was going to even die at any time.“Some other times I asked myself what the Savior would have done in my situation, and I would rather say, ‘This is too much, Lord.’“Then one morning I looked for the pain that comes from all this in my heart and went deeper, looking for it in my soul.
It was nowhere to be found.
My mind quickly passed to review all the reasons I [had] to feel hurt, but I did not feel the pain.
I waited the whole day to see if I was going to feel the pain in my heart; I did not feel it.
Then I knelt down and thanked God for making the atoning sacrifice of the Lord work for me.”6This sister is now happily sealed to a wonderful, faithful man who loves her deeply.So what should our attitude be if we are true disciples of Christ?
And what is the gospel worth to us when we do “consider [our] ways,” as Haggai suggested?I love the example of the correct attitude shown by King Lamoni’s father.
You’ll remember his initial anger at finding his son being accompanied by Ammon, a Nephite—a people whom the Lamanites hated.
He drew his sword to contend with Ammon and soon found Ammon’s sword at his own throat.
“Now the king, fearing he should lose his life, said: If thou wilt spare me I will grant unto thee whatsoever thou wilt ask, even to half of the kingdom.”7Note his offer—half his kingdom for his life.But later, after understanding the gospel, he made another offer.
“The king said: What shall I do that I may have this eternal life of which thou hast spoken?
Yea, what shall I do that I may be born of God, having this wicked spirit rooted out of my breast, and receive his Spirit, that I may be filled with joy, that I may not be cast off at the last day?
Behold, said he, I will give up all that I possess, yea, I will forsake my kingdom, that I may receive this great joy.”8This time, he was prepared to give up all his kingdom, because the gospel was worth more than all he had!
He was fair dinkum about the gospel.So, the question for each of us is, are we also fair dinkum about the gospel?
Because being half-hearted is not being fair dinkum!
And God is not known for showering praise on the lukewarm.9There is no treasure, nor any hobby, nor any status, nor any social media, nor any video games, nor any sport, nor any association with a celebrity, nor anything on earth that is more precious than eternal life.
So the Lord’s counsel to every person is “consider your ways.”My feelings are best expressed in the words of Nephi: “I glory in plainness; I glory in truth; I glory in my Jesus, for he hath redeemed my soul from hell.”10Are we true followers of Him who gave His all for us?
He who is our Redeemer and our Advocate with the Father?
He who was Himself absolutely committed in His atoning sacrifice and is so now in His love, His mercy, and His desire for us to have eternal joy?
I plead with all who hear and read these words: Please, please don’t put your total commitment off until you get around to it at some nonexistent, future time.
Get fair dinkum now and feel the joy!
In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
Have you ever wondered why we call Primary “Primary”?
While the name refers to spiritual learning children receive in their earliest years, to me it is also a reminder of a powerful truth.
To our Heavenly Father, children have never been secondary—they have always been “primary.”1He trusts us to value, respect, and protect them as children of God.
That means we never harm them physically, verbally, or emotionally in any way, even when tensions and pressures run high.
Instead we value children, and we do all we can to combat the evils of abuse.
Their care is primary to us—as it is to Him.2One young mother and father sat at their kitchen table reviewing their day.
From down the hall, they heard a thud.
The mother asked, “What was that?”Then they heard a soft cry coming from their four-year-old son’s bedroom.
They rushed down the hall.
There he was, lying on the floor next to his bed.
The mother picked up the little boy and asked him what had happened.He said, “I fell out of bed.”She said, “Why did you fall out of bed?”He shrugged and said, “I don’t know.
I guess I just didn’t get far enough in.”It is about this “getting far enough in” that I would like to speak this morning.
It is our privilege and responsibility to help children “get far enough in” to the gospel of Jesus Christ.
And we cannot begin too soon.There is a uniquely special time in children’s lives when they are protected from Satan’s influence.
It is a time when they are innocent and sin free.3 It is a sacred time for parent and child.
Children are to be taught, by word and example, before and after they have “arrived unto the years of accountability before God.”4President Henry B. Eyring taught: “We have the greatest opportunity with the young.
The best time to teach is early, while children are still immune to the temptations of [the] mortal enemy, and long before the words of truth may be harder for them to hear in the noise of their personal struggles.”5 Such teaching will help them realize their divine identity, their purpose, and the rich blessings that await them as they make sacred covenants and receive ordinances along the covenant path.We cannot wait for conversion to simply happen to our children.
Accidental conversion is not a principle of the gospel of Jesus Christ.
Becoming like our Savior will not happen randomly.
Being intentional in loving, teaching, and testifying can help children begin at a young age to feel the influence of the Holy Ghost.
The Holy Ghost is essential to our children’s testimony of and conversion to Jesus Christ; we desire them to “always remember him, that they may have his Spirit to be with them.”6Consider the value of family conversations about the gospel of Jesus Christ, essential conversations, that can invite the Spirit.
When we have such conversations with our children, we help them create a foundation, “which is a sure foundation, a foundation whereon if [they] build they cannot fall.”7 When we strengthen a child, we strengthen the family.These vital discussions can lead children to:Understand the doctrine of repentance.Have faith in Christ, the Son of the living God.Choose baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost when eight years old.8And pray and “walk uprightly before the Lord.”9The Savior urged, “Therefore I give unto you a commandment, to teach these things freely unto your children.”10 And what did He want us to teach so freely?The Fall of AdamThe Atonement of Jesus ChristThe importance of being born again11Elder D. Todd Christofferson said, “Certainly the adversary is pleased when parents neglect to teach and train their children to have faith in Christ and be spiritually born again.”12In contrast, the Savior would have us help children “put [their] trust in that Spirit which leadeth to do good.”13 To do so, we can assist children in recognizing when they are feeling the Spirit and in discerning what actions cause the Spirit to leave.
Thus they learn to repent and return to the light through the Atonement of Jesus Christ.
This helps encourage spiritual resilience.We can have fun helping our children build spiritual resilience at any age.
It doesn’t have to be complicated or time intensive.
Simple, caring conversations can lead children to know not only what they believe, but most important, why they believe it.
Caring conversations, happening naturally and consistently, can lead to better understanding and answers.
Let’s not allow the convenience of electronic devices to keep us from teaching and listening to our children and looking into their eyes.Additional opportunities for essential conversations can occur through role-playing.
Family members can act out situations of being tempted or pressured to make a bad choice.
Such an exercise can fortify children to be prepared in a challenging setting.
For example, we can act it out and then talk it out as we ask children what they would do:If they are tempted to break the Word of Wisdom.If they are exposed to pornography.If they are tempted to lie, steal, or cheat.If they hear something from a friend or teacher at school that disputes their beliefs or values.As they act it out and then talk it out, rather than being caught unprepared in a hostile peer group setting, children can be armed with “the shield of faith wherewith [they] shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked.”14A close personal friend learned this crucial lesson as an 18-year-old.
He enlisted in the United States military during the conflict between the United States and Vietnam.
He was assigned to basic training in the infantry to become a foot soldier.
He explained that the training was grueling.
He described his drill instructor as cruel and inhumane.One particular day his squad was dressed in full battle gear, hiking in sweltering heat.
The drill instructor suddenly shouted orders to drop to the ground and not move.
The instructor was watching for even the slightest motion.
Any movement would result in serious consequences later on.
The squad suffered for more than two hours in the heat with growing anger and resentment toward their leader.Many months later our friend found himself leading his squad through the jungles of Vietnam.
This was real, not just training.
Shots began to ring from high in the surrounding trees.
The entire squad immediately dropped to the ground.What was the enemy looking for?
Movement.
Any motion at all would draw fire.
My friend said that as he lay sweating and motionless on the jungle floor, waiting for dark for several long hours, his thoughts reflected back on basic training.
He remembered his intense dislike for his drill instructor.
Now he felt intense gratitude—for what he had taught him and how he had prepared him for this critical situation.
The drill instructor had wisely equipped our friend and his squad with the ability to know what to do when the battle was raging.
He had, in effect, saved our friend’s life.How can we do the same for our children spiritually?
Long before they enter the battlefield of life, how can we more fully strive to teach, fortify, and prepare them?15 How can we invite them to “get far enough in”?
Wouldn’t we rather have them “sweat” in the safe learning environment of the home than bleed on the battlefields of life?As I look back, there were times when my husband and I felt like drill instructors in our earnestness to help our children live the gospel of Jesus Christ.
The prophet Jacob seemed to voice these same feelings when he said: “I am desirous for the welfare of your souls.
Yea, mine anxiety is great for you; and ye yourselves know that it ever has been.”16As children learn and progress, their beliefs will be challenged.
But as they are properly equipped, they can grow in faith, courage, and confidence, even in the midst of strong opposition.Alma taught us to “prepare the minds of [the] children.”17 We are preparing the rising generation to be the future defenders of the faith, to understand “that [they] are free to act for [themselves]—to choose the way of everlasting death or the way of eternal life.”18 Children deserve to understand this great truth: eternity is the wrong thing to be wrong about.May our simple yet essential conversations with our children help them to “enjoy the words of eternal life” now so that they may enjoy “eternal life in the world to come, even immortal glory.”19As we nurture and prepare our children, we allow for their agency, we love them with all our heart, we teach them God’s commandments and His gift of repentance, and we never, ever, give up on them.
After all, isn’t this the Lord’s way with each of us?Let us “press forward with a steadfastness in Christ,” knowing that we can have “a perfect brightness of hope”20 through our loving Savior.I testify that He is always the answer.
In the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.
The Book of Mormon Teaches the Doctrine of ChristLast October, President Russell M. Nelson challenged us to consider how our lives would be different if our “knowledge gained from the Book of Mormon were suddenly taken away.”1 I have pondered on his question, as I am sure many of you have.
One thought has come again and again—without the Book of Mormon and its clarity about the doctrine of Christ and His atoning sacrifice, where would I turn for peace?The doctrine of Christ—which consists of the saving principles and ordinances of faith in Christ, repentance, baptism, the gift of the Holy Ghost, and enduring to the end—is taught numerous times in all the scriptures of the Restoration but with particular power in the Book of Mormon.2 The doctrine begins with faith in Christ, and every one of its elements depends upon trust in His atoning sacrifice.As President Nelson has taught, “The Book of Mormon provides the fullest and most authoritative understanding of the Atonement of Jesus Christ to be found anywhere.”3 The more we understand about the Savior’s supernal gift, the more we will come to know, in our minds and in our hearts,4 the reality of President Nelson’s assurance that “the truths of the Book of Mormon have the power to heal, comfort, restore, succor, strengthen, console, and cheer our souls.”5The Savior’s Atonement Satisfies All the Demands of JusticeA vital and peace-giving contribution of the Book of Mormon to our understanding of the Savior’s Atonement is its teaching that Christ’s merciful sacrifice fulfills all the demands of justice.
As Alma explained, “God himself atoneth for the sins of the world, to bring about the plan of mercy, to appease the demands of justice, that God might be a perfect, just God, and a merciful God also.”6 The Father’s plan of mercy7—what the scriptures also call the plan of happiness8 or the plan of salvation9—could not be accomplished unless all the demands of justice were satisfied.But what exactly are the “demands of justice”?
Consider Alma’s own experience.
Remember that as a young man, Alma went about seeking “to destroy the church.”10 In fact, Alma told his son Helaman that he was “tormented with the pains of hell” because he had effectively “murdered many of [God’s] children” by leading “them away unto destruction.”11Alma explained to Helaman that peace finally came to him when his “mind caught hold” on his father’s teaching “concerning the coming of … Jesus Christ … to atone for the sins of the world.”12 A penitent Alma pleaded for Christ’s mercy13 and then felt joy and relief when he realized that Christ had atoned for his sins and paid all that justice required.
Again, what would justice have required of Alma?
As Alma himself later taught, “No unclean thing can inherit the kingdom of God.”14 Thus, part of Alma’s relief must have been that unless mercy interceded, justice would have prevented him from returning to live with Heavenly Father.15The Savior Heals the Wounds We Cannot HealBut was Alma’s joy focused solely on himself—on his avoiding punishment and his being able to return to the Father?
We know that Alma also agonized about those whom he had led away from the truth.16 But Alma himself could not heal and restore all those he had led away.
He could not himself ensure that they would be given a fair opportunity to learn the doctrine of Christ and to be blessed by living its joyful principles.
He could not bring back those who may have died still blinded by his false teaching.As President Boyd K. Packer once taught: “The thought that rescued Alma … is this: Restoring what you cannot restore, healing the wound you cannot heal, fixing that which you broke and you cannot fix is the very purpose of the atonement of Christ.”17 The joyous truth on which Alma’s mind “caught hold” was not just that he himself could be made clean but also that those whom he had harmed could be healed and made whole.The Savior’s Sacrifice Ensures a Righteous JudgmentYears before Alma was rescued by this reassuring doctrine, King Benjamin had taught about the breadth of healing offered by the Savior’s atoning sacrifice.
King Benjamin declared that “glad tidings of great joy” were given him “by an angel from God.”18 Among those glad tidings was the truth that Christ would suffer and die for our sins and mistakes to ensure that “a righteous judgment might come upon the children of men.”19What exactly does a “righteous judgment” require?
In the next verse, King Benjamin explained that to ensure a righteous judgment, the Savior’s blood atoned “for the sins of those who have fallen by the transgression of Adam” and for those “who have died not knowing the will of God concerning them, or who have ignorantly sinned.”20 A righteous judgment also required, he taught, that “the blood of Christ atoneth for” the sins of little children.21These scriptures teach a glorious doctrine: the Savior’s atoning sacrifice heals, as a free gift, those who sin in ignorance—those to whom, as Jacob put it, “there is no law given.”22 Accountability for sin depends on the light we have been given and hinges on our ability to exercise our agency.23 We know this healing and comforting truth only because of the Book of Mormon and other Restoration scripture.24Of course, where there is a law given, where we are not ignorant of the will of God, we are accountable.
As King Benjamin emphasized: “Wo unto him who knoweth that he rebelleth against God!
For salvation cometh to none such except it be through repentance and faith on the Lord Jesus Christ.”25This too is glad tidings of the doctrine of Christ.
Not only does the Savior heal and restore those who sin in ignorance, but also, for those who sin against the light, the Savior offers healing on the condition of repentance and faith in Him.26Alma must have “caught hold” of both these truths.
Would Alma truly have felt what he describes as “exquisite … joy”27 if he thought that Christ saved him but left forever harmed those he had led away from the truth?
Surely not.
For Alma to feel complete peace, those he harmed also needed the opportunity to be made whole.But how exactly would they—or those we may harm—be made whole?
Although we do not fully understand the sacred mechanics by which the Savior’s atoning sacrifice heals and restores, we do know that to ensure a righteous judgment, the Savior will clear away the underbrush of ignorance and the painful thorns of hurt caused by others.28 By this He ensures that all God’s children will be given the opportunity, with unobscured vision, to choose to follow Him and accept the great plan of happiness.29The Savior Will Mend All That We Have BrokenIt is these truths that would have brought Alma peace.
And it is these truths that should bring us great peace as well.
As natural men and women, we all bump, or sometimes crash, into each other and cause harm.
As any parent can testify, the pain associated with our mistakes is not simply the fear of our own punishment but the fear that we may have limited our children’s joy or in some way hindered them from seeing and understanding the truth.
The glorious promise of the Savior’s atoning sacrifice is that as far as our mistakes as parents are concerned, He holds our children blameless and promises healing for them.30 And even when they have sinned against the light—as we all do—His arm of mercy is outstretched,31 and He will redeem them if they will but look to Him and live.32Although the Savior has power to mend what we cannot fix, He commands us to do all we can to make restitution as part of our repentance.33 Our sins and mistakes displace not only our relationship with God but also our relationships with others.
Sometimes our efforts to heal and restore may be as simple as an apology, but other times restitution may require years of humble effort.34 Yet, for many of our sins and mistakes, we simply are not able to fully heal those we have hurt.
The magnificent, peace-giving promise of the Book of Mormon and the restored gospel is that the Savior will mend all that we have broken.35 And He will also mend us if we turn to Him in faith and repent of the harm we have caused.36 He offers both of these gifts because He loves all of us with perfect love37 and because He is committed to ensuring a righteous judgment that honors both justice and mercy.
I testify this is true in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
To even the careful student of the life and ministry of Jesus Christ, the Savior’s admonition to be “even as I am”1 is daunting and seemingly unattainable.
Perhaps you are like me—all too aware of your faults and failings, so you may find it mentally more comfortable to walk a path with no upward incline and little growth.
“Surely, this teaching is unrealistic and hyperbole,” we rationalize as we comfortably choose the course of least resistance, thereby burning fewer calories of needed change.But what if becoming “even as [He is]” is not figurative, even in our mortal condition?
What if it is, to some degree, attainable in this life and, indeed, a prerequisite to being with Him again?
What if “even as I am” is exactly and precisely what is meant by the Savior?
Then what?
What level of effort would we be willing to give to invite His miraculous power into our lives so that we can change our very nature?Elder Neal A. Maxwell taught: “As we ponder having been commanded by Jesus to become like Him, we see that our present circumstance is one in which we are not necessarily wicked, but, rather, is one in which we are so half-hearted and so lacking in enthusiasm for His cause—which is our cause, too!
We extol but seldom emulate Him.”2 A young minister, Charles M. Sheldon, expressed similar sentiments this way: “Our Christianity loves its ease and comfort too well to take up anything so rough and heavy as a cross.”3In fact, all are under the directive to become like Him, just as Jesus Christ became like the Father.4 As we progress, we become more complete, finished, and fully developed.5 Such teaching is not based on any one sect’s doctrines but comes directly from the Master Himself.
It is through this lens that lives should be lived, communications considered, and relationships fostered.
Truly, there is no other way to heal the wounds of broken relationships or of a fractured society than for each of us to more fully emulate the Prince of Peace.6Let’s consider how to begin a thoughtful, deliberate, and intentional pursuit of becoming as He is by gaining the very attributes of Jesus Christ.Resolve and CommitA few years ago, my wife and I stood at the trailhead of Japan’s highest mountain, Mount Fuji.
As we began our ascent we looked up to the far-distant summit and wondered if we could get there.As we progressed, fatigue, sore muscles, and the effects of altitude set in.
Mentally, it became important for us to focus on just the next step.
We would say, “I may not soon make it to the top, but I can do this next step right now.” Over time the daunting task ultimately became achievable—step by step.The first step on this path to becoming like Jesus Christ is to have the desire to do so.
Understanding the admonition to be like Him is good, but that understanding needs to be coupled with a yearning to transform ourselves, one step at a time, beyond the natural man.7 To develop the desire, we must know who Jesus Christ is.
We must know something of His character,8 and we must look for His attributes in scripture, worship services, and other holy places.
As we begin to know more of Him, we will see His attributes reflected in others.
This will encourage us on our own quest, for if others can attain in some measure His attributes, so can we.If we are honest with ourselves, the Light of Christ9 within us whispers that there is distance between where we are in comparison with the desired character of the Savior.10 Such honesty is vital if we are to progress in becoming like Him.
Indeed, honesty is one of His attributes.Now, those of us who are brave might consider asking a trusted family member, spouse, friend, or spiritual leader what attribute of Jesus Christ we are in need of—and we may need to brace ourselves for the response!
Sometimes we see ourselves with distorted fun-house mirrors that show us either much more round or much more lean than we really are.Trusted friends and family can help us see ourselves more accurately, but even they, as loving and helpful as they would like to be, can see things imperfectly.
As a result, it is vital that we also ask our loving Heavenly Father what we are in need of and where we should focus our efforts.
He has a perfect view of us and will lovingly show us our weakness.11 Perhaps you will learn that you need greater patience, humility, charity, love, hope, diligence, or obedience, to name a few.12Not long ago, I had a soul-stretching experience when a loving Church leader made a very direct suggestion that I could use greater measure of a certain attribute.
He lovingly cut through any distortion.
That night, I shared this experience with my wife.
She was mercifully charitable even as she agreed with his suggestion.
The Holy Ghost confirmed to me that their counsel was from a loving Heavenly Father.It may also be helpful to honestly complete the Christlike attribute activity in chapter 6 of Preach My Gospel.13Once you have made an honest assessment and resolved to start the hike up the mountain, you will need to repent.
President Russell M. Nelson lovingly taught: “When we choose to repent, we choose to change!
We allow the Savior to transform us into the best version of ourselves.
We choose to grow spiritually and receive joy—the joy of redemption in Him.
When we choose to repent, we choose to become more like Jesus Christ.”14Becoming as Jesus Christ is will require changing our hearts and minds, indeed, our very character, and doing so is possible only through the saving grace of Jesus Christ.15Identify and ActNow that you have resolved to change and repent and have sought guidance through praying, pondering honestly, and possibly counseling with others, you will need to select an attribute that will keenly become your focus.
You will need to commit to exerting meaningful effort.
These attributes won’t come cheaply and suddenly, but through His grace they will come incrementally while endeavoring.Christlike attributes are gifts from a loving Heavenly Father to bless us and those around us.
Accordingly, our efforts to obtain these attributes will require heartfelt pleas for His divine assistance.
If we seek these gifts to better serve others, He will bless us in our efforts.
Selfishly pursuing a gift from God will end in disappointment and frustration.By focusing deeply on one needed attribute, as you progress in obtaining that attribute, other attributes begin to accrue to you.
Can someone who is focusing deeply on charity not increase in love and humility?
Can someone who is focusing on obedience not gain greater diligence and hope?
Your significant efforts to gain one attribute become the tide that raises all boats in the harbor.Record and SustainIt is important for me as I strive to become like Him to record my experiences and what I am learning.
As I study with one of His attributes deep in my mind, the scriptures become new as I see examples of this attribute in His teachings, His ministry, and His disciples.
My eye also becomes more focused on recognizing the attribute in others.
I have observed wonderful individuals both within and without the Church who have attributes that emulate Him.
They are powerful examples of how those attributes can be manifest in mere mortals through His loving grace.In order to see real progress, you will need to put in sustained effort.
Much like climbing a mountain requires preparation before and endurance and perseverance during ascent, so too will this journey require real effort and sacrifice.
True Christianity, in which we strive to become like our Master, has always required our best efforts.16Now a brief word of caution.
The commandment to be like Him is not intended to make you feel guilty, unworthy, or unloved.
Our entire mortal experience is about progression, trying, failing, and succeeding.
As much as my wife and I may have wished that we could close our eyes and magically transport ourselves to the summit, that is not what life is about.You are good enough, you are loved, but that does not mean that you are yet complete.
There is work to be done in this life and the next.
Only with His divine help can we all progress toward becoming like Him.In these times, when “all things [appear to] be in commotion; and … fear [is seemingly] upon all people,”17 the only antidote, the only remedy, is to strive to be like the Savior,18 the Redeemer19 of all mankind, the Light of the World,20 and to seek after Him who declared, “I am the way.”21I know that becoming like Him through His divine help and strength is achievable step by step.
If not so, He would not have given us this commandment.22 I know this—in part because I see attributes of Him in so many of you.
Of these things I testify in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
The Book of Mormon prophet Enos, Lehi’s grandson, wrote of a singular experience that happened earlier in his life.
While hunting alone in the forest, Enos began pondering on the teachings of his father, Jacob.
He related, “The words which I had often heard my father speak concerning eternal life, and the joy of the saints, sunk deep into my heart.”1 In the spiritual hunger of his soul, Enos knelt in prayer, a remarkable prayer that lasted through the day and into the night, a prayer that brought him crucial revelations, assurances, and promises.There is much to be learned from Enos’s experience, but today what stands out in my mind is Enos’s memory of his father speaking often of “the joy of the saints.”In this conference three years ago, President Russell M. Nelson spoke of joy.2 Among other things, he said:“The joy we feel has little to do with the circumstances of our lives and everything to do with the focus of our lives.“When the focus of our lives is on God’s plan of salvation … and Jesus Christ and His gospel, we can feel joy regardless of what is happening—or not happening—in our lives.
Joy comes from and because of Him.
… For Latter-day Saints, Jesus Christ is joy!”3Saints are those who have entered into the gospel covenant through baptism and are striving to follow Christ as His disciples.4 Thus, “the joy of the saints” denotes the joy of becoming Christlike.I would like to speak of the joy that comes from keeping His commandments, the joy that arises from overcoming sorrow and weakness through Him, and the joy inherent in serving as He served.The Joy of Keeping Christ’s CommandmentsWe live in a hedonistic age when many question the importance of the Lord’s commandments or simply ignore them.
Not infrequently, people who flout divine directives such as the law of chastity, the standard of honesty, and the holiness of the Sabbath seem to prosper and enjoy the good things of life, at times even more so than those who are striving to be obedient.
Some begin to wonder if the effort and sacrifices are worth it.
The ancient people of Israel once complained:“It is vain to serve God: and what profit is it that we have kept his ordinance, and that we have walked mournfully before the Lord of hosts?“And now we call the proud happy; yea, they that work wickedness are set up; yea, they that tempt God are even delivered.”5Just wait, said the Lord, until “that day when I make up my jewels.
… Then shall ye … discern between the righteous and the wicked, between him that serveth God and him that serveth him not.”6 The wicked may “have joy in their works for a season,” but it is always temporary.7 The joy of the Saints is enduring.God sees things in their true perspective, and He shares that perspective with us through His commandments, effectively guiding us around the pitfalls and potholes of mortality toward eternal joy.
The Prophet Joseph Smith explained: “When His commandments teach us, it is in view of eternity; for we are looked upon by God as though we were in eternity; God dwells in eternity, and does not view things as we do.”8I haven’t met anyone who found the gospel later in life who didn’t wish it could have been earlier.
“Oh, the poor choices and mistakes I could have avoided,” they will say.
The Lord’s commandments are our guide to better choices and happier outcomes.
How we ought to rejoice and thank Him for showing us this more excellent way.As a teenager, Sister Kalombo Rosette Kamwanya from the D.R.
Congo, now serving in the Côte d’Ivoire Abidjan West Mission, fasted and prayed for three days to find the direction God wanted her to take.
In a remarkable night vision, she was shown two buildings, a chapel and what she now realizes was a temple.
She began to search and soon found the chapel she had seen in her dream.
The sign said, “The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.” Sister Kamwanya was baptized and then her mother and her six brothers.
Sister Kamwanya said, “When I received the gospel, I felt like a captured bird that had been liberated.
My heart was filled with joy.
… I had the assurance that God loves me.”9Keeping the Lord’s commandments enables us more fully and more easily to feel His love.
The strait and narrow path of the commandments leads directly to the tree of life, and the tree and its fruit, the sweetest and “most desirable above all things,”10 are a representation of the love of God and fill the soul “with exceedingly great joy.”11 Said the Savior:“If ye keep my commandments, ye shall abide in my love; even as I have kept my Father’s commandments, and abide in his love.“These things have I spoken unto you, that my joy might remain in you, and that your joy might be full.”12The Joy of Overcoming through ChristEven when we are found faithfully keeping the commandments, there are trials and tragedies that could interrupt our joy.
But as we strive to overcome these challenges with the Savior’s help, it preserves both the joy we feel now and the joy we anticipate.
Christ reassured His disciples, “In the world ye shall have tribulation: but be of good cheer; I have overcome the world.”13 It is in turning to Him, obeying Him, binding ourselves to Him that trial and sorrow are turned to joy.
I mention one example.In 1989, Jack Rushton was serving as president of the Irvine California Stake in the United States.
During a family vacation on the California coast, Jack was bodysurfing when a wave swept him into a submerged rock, breaking his neck and severely injuring his spinal cord.
Jack said later, “The instant I hit, I knew that I was paralyzed.”14 He could no longer talk or even breathe on his own.15Family, friends, and stake members rallied around Brother Rushton and his wife, Jo Anne, and, among other things, remodeled a section of their home to accommodate Jack’s wheelchair.
Jo Anne became Jack’s principal caregiver for the next 23 years.
Referring to Book of Mormon accounts of how the Lord visited His people in their afflictions and made their burdens light,16 Jo Anne said, “I am often amazed at the lightness of heart I feel in caring for my husband.”17An alteration to his respiration system restored Jack’s ability to speak, and within the year, Jack was called as Gospel Doctrine teacher and stake patriarch.
When he would give a patriarchal blessing, another priesthood holder placed Brother Rushton’s hand on the head of the person receiving the blessing and supported his hand and arm during the blessing.
Jack passed away on Christmas Day 2012, after 22 years of devoted service.Once in an interview, Jack observed: “Problems will come into all of our lives; it’s part of just being here upon this earth.
And some people think that religion or having faith in God will protect you from bad things.
I don’t think that’s the point.
I think the point is that if our faith is strong, that when bad things happen, which they will, we’ll be able to deal with them.
… My faith never wavered, but that didn’t mean that I didn’t have depressions.
I think for the first time in my life, I was pushed to the limit, and literally there was nowhere to turn, and so I turned to the Lord, and to this day, I feel a spontaneity of joy.”18This is a day of sometimes merciless attacks in social media and in person against those who seek to uphold the Lord’s standard in dress, entertainment, and sexual purity.
It is often the youth and young adults among the Saints, as well as women and mothers, who bear this cross of mocking and persecution.
It is not easy to rise above such abuse, but remember the words of Peter: “If ye be reproached for the name of Christ, happy are ye; for the spirit of glory and of God resteth upon you: on their part he is evil spoken of, but on your part he is glorified.”19In the Garden of Eden, Adam and Eve were “in a state of innocence, having no joy, for they knew no misery.”20 Now, as accountable beings, we find joy in overcoming misery in whatever form, whether it be sin, trial, weakness, or any other obstacle to happiness.
This is the joy of sensing progress in the path of discipleship; the joy of “having received a remission of … sins, and having peace of conscience”;21 the joy of feeling one’s soul expand and grow through the grace of Christ.22The Joy of Serving as Christ ServesThe Savior finds joy in bringing to pass our immortality and eternal life.23 In speaking of the Savior’s Atonement, President Russell M. Nelson said:“As in all things, Jesus Christ is our ultimate exemplar, ‘who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross’ [Hebrews 12:2].
Think of that!
In order for Him to endure the most excruciating experience ever endured on earth, our Savior focused on joy!“And what was the joy that was set before Him?
Surely it included the joy of cleansing, healing, and strengthening us; the joy of paying for the sins of all who would repent; the joy of making it possible for you and me to return home—clean and worthy—to live with our Heavenly Parents and families.”24Similarly, the joy “set before us” is the joy of assisting the Savior in His work of redemption.
As the seed and children of Abraham,25 we participate in blessing all the families of the earth “with the blessings of the Gospel, which are the blessings of salvation, even of life eternal.”26The words of Alma come to mind:“This is my glory, that perhaps I may be an instrument in the hands of God to bring some soul to repentance; and this is my joy.“And behold, when I see many of my brethren truly penitent, and coming to the Lord their God, then is my soul filled with joy.
…“But I do not joy in my own success alone, but my joy is more full because of the success of my brethren, who have been up to the land of Nephi.
…“Now, when I think of the success of these my brethren my soul is carried away, even to the separation of it from the body, as it were, so great is my joy.”27The fruits of our service to one another in the Church are part of the joy “set before us.” Even in times of discouragement or stress, we can minister patiently if we are focused on the joy of pleasing God and bringing light, relief, and happiness to His children, our brothers and sisters.When in Haiti last month for the dedication of the Port-au-Prince Temple, Elder David and Sister Susan Bednar met with a young sister whose husband had been killed a few days earlier in a tragic accident.
They wept together with her.
Yet on Sunday this dear woman was in her place as an usher at the dedication services, with a soft, welcoming smile for all who entered the temple.I believe that the ultimate “joy of the saints” comes in knowing that the Savior pleads their cause,28 “and no one can conceive of the joy which [will fill] our souls [as] we [hear Jesus] pray for us unto the Father.”29 With President Russell M. Nelson, I testify that joy is a gift for faithful Saints “who have endured the crosses of the world”30 and who are “intentionally trying to live a righteous life, as taught by Jesus Christ.”31 May your joy be full, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
Seeing God’s HandI love the Old Testament story of a young man who served the prophet Elisha.
Early one morning the young man woke up, went outside, and found the city surrounded by a great army intent on destroying them.
He ran to Elisha: “Alas, my master!
how shall we do?”Elisha answered, “Fear not: for they that be with us are more than they that be with them.”Elisha knew the young man needed more than calming reassurance; he needed vision.
And so “Elisha prayed, … Lord, … open his eyes, that he may see.
And the Lord opened the eyes of the young man; and he saw: and, behold, the mountain was full of horses and chariots of fire round about Elisha.”1There may be times when you, like the servant, find yourself struggling to see how God is working in your life—times when you feel under siege—when the trials of mortality bring you to your knees.
Wait and trust in God and in His timing, because you can trust His heart with all of yours.
But there is a second lesson here.
My dear sisters and brothers, you too can pray for the Lord to open your eyes to see things you would not normally see.Seeing Ourselves as God Sees UsPerhaps the most important things for us to see clearly are who God is and who we really are—sons and daughters of heavenly parents, with a “divine nature and eternal destiny.”2 Ask God to reveal these truths to you, along with how He feels about you.
The more you understand your true identity and purpose, soul deep, the more it will influence everything in your life.Seeing OthersUnderstanding how God sees us prepares the way to help us see others as He does.
Columnist David Brooks said: “Many of our society’s great problems flow from people not feeling seen and known.
… [There is a] core … trait that we all have to get … better at[, and that] is the trait of seeing each other deeply and being deeply seen.”3Jesus Christ sees people deeply.
He sees individuals, their needs, and who they can become.
Where others saw fishermen, sinners, or publicans, Jesus saw disciples; where others saw a man possessed by devils, Jesus looked past the outward distress, acknowledged the man, and healed him.4Even in our busy lives, we can follow the example of Jesus and see individuals—their needs, their faith, their struggle, and who they can become.5As I pray for the Lord to open my eyes to see things I might not normally see, I often ask myself two questions and pay attention to the impressions that come: “What am I doing that I should stop doing?” and “What am I not doing that I should start doing?”6Months ago, during the sacrament, I asked myself these questions and was surprised by the impression that came.
“Stop looking at your phone when you are waiting in lines.” Looking at my phone in lines had become almost automatic; I found it a good time to multitask, catch up on email, look at headlines, or scroll through a social media feed.The next morning, I found myself waiting in a long line at the store.
I pulled out my phone and then remembered the impression I had received.
I put my phone away and looked around.
I saw an elderly gentleman in line ahead of me.
His cart was empty except for a few cans of cat food.
I felt a little awkward but said something really clever like, “I can see you have a cat.” He said that a storm was coming, and he did not want to be caught without cat food.
We visited briefly, and then he turned to me and said, “You know, I haven’t told anyone this, but today is my birthday.” My heart melted.
I wished him a happy birthday and offered a silent prayer of thanks that I had not been on my phone and missed an opportunity to truly see and connect with another person who needed it.With all of my heart I do not want to be like the priest or the Levite on the road to Jericho—one who looks and passes by.7 But too often I think I am.Seeing God’s Errand for MeI recently learned a valuable lesson about seeing deeply from a young woman named Rozlyn.The story was shared with me by my friend who was devastated when her husband of 20 years moved out.
With her children splitting time between parents, the prospect of attending church alone seemed daunting.
She recounts:“In a church where the family is of paramount importance, sitting solo can be painful.
That first Sunday I walked in praying no one would speak to me.
I was barely holding it together, and tears were on the brink.
I sat in my typical spot, hoping no one would notice how empty the bench seemed.“A young woman in our ward turned and looked at me.
I pretended to smile.
She smiled back.
I could see the concern in her face.
I silently pleaded that she wouldn’t come to talk to me—I had nothing positive to say and knew I would cry.
I looked back down at my lap and avoided eye contact.“During the next hour, I noticed her looking back at me occasionally.
As soon as the meeting ended, she made a beeline for me.
‘Hi, Rozlyn,’ I whispered.
She wrapped me in her arms and said, ‘Sister Smith, I can tell today is a bad day for you.
I’m so sorry.
I love you.’ As predicted, the tears came as she hugged me again.
But as I walked away, I thought to myself, ‘Maybe I can do this after all.’“That sweet 16-year-old young woman, less than half my age, found me every Sunday for the rest of that year to give me a hug and ask, ‘How are you?’ It made such a difference in how I felt about coming to church.
The truth is I started to rely on those hugs.
Someone noticed me.
Someone knew I was there.
Someone cared.”As with all gifts the Father so willingly offers, seeing deeply requires us to ask Him—and then act.
Ask to see others as He does—as His true sons and daughters with infinite and divine potential.
Then act by loving, serving, and affirming their worth and potential as prompted.
As this becomes the pattern of our lives, we will find ourselves becoming “true followers of … Jesus Christ.”8 Others will be able to trust our hearts with theirs.
And in this pattern we will also discover our own true identity and purpose.My friend recalled another experience while sitting in that same empty pew, alone, wondering if 20 years of effort to live the gospel in her home was all for naught.
She needed more than calming reassurance; she needed vision.
She felt a question pierce her heart: “Why did you do those things?
Did you do them for the reward, the praise of others, or the desired outcome?” She hesitated for a moment, searched her heart, and was then able to answer confidently, “I did them because I love the Savior.
And I love His gospel.” The Lord opened her eyes to help her see.
This simple but powerful change of vision helped her continue to press on with faith in Christ, despite her circumstances.I witness that Jesus Christ loves us and can give us eyes to see—even when it’s hard, even when we’re tired, even when we’re lonely, and even when the outcomes are not as we hoped.
Through His grace, He will bless us and increase our capacity.
Through the power of the Holy Ghost, Christ will enable us to see ourselves and see others as He does.
With His help, we can discern what is most needful.
We can begin to see the hand of the Lord working in and through the ordinary details of our lives—we will see deeply.And then, in that great day “when he shall appear we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is; that we may have this hope”9 is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
Exceptional TeachersA few months ago, a former classmate from my hometown of Overton, Nevada, suggested we put together a Christmas gift for our beloved kindergarten teacher, who had recently celebrated her 98th birthday.
She taught us to be kind, the importance of a good nap, the joy of milk and graham crackers, and to love one another.
Thank you, Sister Davis, for being such a wonderful teacher.I had another exceptional teacher while attending Ricks College many years ago.
I was preparing to serve a mission and thought it would be helpful to attend a missionary preparation class.
What I experienced changed my life.From the first day of class, I realized I was in the presence of a master teacher.
The teacher was Brother F. Melvin Hammond.
I knew Brother Hammond loved the Lord and he loved me.
I could see it in his face and hear it in his voice.
When he taught, the Spirit enlightened my mind.
He taught doctrine, but he also invited me to learn it on my own.
That invitation helped me clearly see my responsibility to learn the Lord’s doctrine for myself.
That experience changed me forever.
Thank you, Brother Hammond, for teaching in the Savior’s way.Brothers and sisters, everyone deserves to have this kind of learning experience both at home and at church.The introduction to Come, Follow Me gives a vision of what Christlike teaching can accomplish.
“The aim of all gospel learning and teaching,” it says, “is to deepen our conversion to Jesus Christ and help us become more like Him.
… The kind of gospel learning that strengthens our faith and leads to the miracle of conversion doesn’t happen all at once.
It extends beyond [the] classroom into an individual’s heart and home.”1The scriptures indicate that the Savior’s ministry in ancient America was so impactful and widespread that “the people were all converted unto the Lord, upon all the face of the land, both Nephites and Lamanites, and there were no contentions and disputations among them, and every man did deal justly one with another.”2How can our teaching have a similar effect on those we love?
How can we teach more like the Savior and help others become more deeply converted?
Allow me to offer a few suggestions.Emulate the SaviorFirst and foremost, take it upon yourself to learn all you can about the Master Teacher Himself.
How did He show love for others?
What did they feel when He taught?
What did He teach?
What were His expectations of those He taught?
After you explore questions like these, evaluate and adjust your way of teaching to be more like His.The Church provides many teaching resources in the Gospel Library app and on ChurchofJesusChrist.org.
One such resource is titled Teaching in the Savior’s Way.
I invite you to read and study its every word.
Its principles will assist you in your efforts to be more Christlike in your teaching.Unleash the Power of FamiliesMy next suggestion can be illustrated with an experience I had a few months ago when I stopped by to visit a dear friend.
I could hear his wife in the background speaking with someone, so I quickly excused myself so he could get back to his family.An hour or so later I received this text message from his sweet wife: “Brother Newman, thanks for coming over.
We should have invited you in, but I want to share with you what we were doing.
Since the pandemic we have been discussing Come, Follow Me with our adult children every Sunday over Zoom.
It has literally been working miracles.
I think it is the first time our daughter has read the Book of Mormon on her own.
Today was the last lesson on the Book of Mormon, and we were just finishing when you came by.
… I thought you would be interested to hear how Come, Follow Me, Zoom, and a pandemic have provided the opportunity at the right time to change a heart.
… It makes me wonder how many little miracles have been taking place during this odd time.”This sounds to me like a fulfillment of the promise President Russell M. Nelson made in October 2018.
He said that home-centered, Church-supported gospel learning “has the potential to unleash the power of families, as each family follows through conscientiously and carefully to transform their home into a sanctuary of faith.
I promise that as you diligently work to remodel your home into a center of gospel learning, over time your Sabbath days will truly be a delight.
Your children will be excited to learn and to live the Savior’s teachings.
… Changes in your family will be dramatic and sustaining.”3 What a beautiful promise!To be truly life-changing, conversion to Jesus Christ must involve our whole soul and permeate every aspect of our lives.
This is why it must be focused at the center of our lives—our families and homes.Remember That Conversion Is PersonalMy final suggestion is to remember that conversion must come from within.
As illustrated in the parable of the ten virgins, we cannot give someone else the oil of our conversion, as much as we might want to.
As Elder David A. Bednar taught: “This precious oil is acquired one drop at a time … patiently and persistently.
No shortcut is available; no last-minute flurry of preparation is possible.”4Come, Follow Me is based on that truth.
I compare it to the angel who helped Nephi learn about Jesus Christ by saying, “Look!”5 Like that angel, Come, Follow Me invites us to look in the scriptures and the words of the modern-day prophets in order to find the Savior and hear Him.
Like Nephi, we will be personally tutored by the Spirit while reading and pondering the word of God.
Come, Follow Me is the springboard that helps each of us to dive deeply into the living waters of the doctrine of Christ.A parent’s responsibility is similar in many ways.
Children inherit many things from their parents, but a testimony is not one of them.
We can’t give our children a testimony any more than we can make a seed grow.
But we can provide a nourishing environment, with good soil, free of thorns that would “choke the word.” We can strive to create the ideal conditions so that our children—and others we love—can find place for the seed, “[hear] the word, and [understand] it”6 and discover for themselves “that the seed is good.”7Several years ago, my son Jack and I had the opportunity to play the Old Course at St. Andrews in Scotland, where the game of golf began.
It was simply amazing!
Upon my return I tried to convey to others the magnitude of the experience.
But I couldn’t.
Photos, videos, and my best descriptions were totally inadequate.
I finally realized the only way for someone to know the grandeur of St. Andrews is to experience it—to see the vast fairways, breathe the air, feel the wind in their face, and hit a few errant shots into the cavernous bunkers and burly gorse bushes, which we did with great efficiency.So it is with the word of God.
We can teach it, we can preach it, we can explain it.
We can talk about it, we can describe it, we can even testify of it.
But until a person feels the sacred word of God distill upon his or her soul like the dews from heaven through the power of the Spirit,8 it will be like looking at a postcard or someone else’s vacation photos.
You have to go there yourself.
Conversion is a personal journey—a journey of gathering.Everyone who teaches in the home and at church can offer to others the opportunity to have their own spiritual experiences.
Through these experiences, they will come to “know the truth of all things” for themselves.9 President Nelson taught, “If you have sincere questions about the gospel or the Church, as you choose to let God prevail, you will be led to find and understand the absolute, eternal truths that will guide your life and help you stay firmly on the covenant path.”10Dramatically Improve TeachingI invite leaders and teachers in every organization of the Church to counsel together with parents and youth in order to dramatically improve teaching at every level—in stakes, in wards, and in homes.
This will be achieved by teaching the doctrine and inviting Spirit-filled discussion about the truths the Holy Ghost has taught us in the quiet moments of our personal study.My dear friends in Christ, the responsibility rests squarely upon each of us to follow the example of the Master and teach like Him.
His way is the true way!
As we follow Him “when he shall appear we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is; that we may have this hope; that we may be purified even as he is pure.”11 In the name of He who is risen, the Master Teacher Himself, Jesus Christ, amen.
One of the most striking principles taught by the Savior during His earthly ministry was treating others with compassion.
Let us reflect on this principle and its practical application by considering the account of Jesus’s visit to the home of Simon the Pharisee.The Gospel of Luke relates that a certain woman, considered a sinner, entered Simon’s home while Jesus was there.
In humble contrition, the woman approached Jesus, washed His feet with her tears, wiped them with her hair, and then kissed and anointed them with a special ointment.1 The proud host, who considered himself morally superior to the woman, thought to himself with reproach and arrogance, “This man, if he were a prophet, would have known who and what manner of woman this is that toucheth him: for she is a sinner.”2The Pharisee’s holier-than-thou attitude led him to judge unjustly both Jesus and the woman.
But in His omniscience, the Savior knew Simon’s mind and, in great wisdom, challenged Simon’s condescending attitude, as well as admonished him for his lack of courtesy in receiving a special guest like the Savior into his home.
In fact, Jesus’s direct rebuke of the Pharisee served as a witness that Jesus indeed possessed the gift of prophecy and that this woman, with a humble and contrite heart, was repentant and forgiven for her sins.3As do many other events during Jesus’s earthly ministry, this account demonstrates once more that the Savior acted compassionately toward all who would come unto Him—without distinction—and most especially toward those who most needed His help.
The contrition and reverent love shown to Jesus by the woman were evidence of her sincere repentance and desire to receive a remission of her sins.
However, Simon’s superiority complex, coupled with his hardened heart,4 prevented him from showing empathy for that repentant soul, and he referred even to the Savior of the world with indifference and contempt.
His attitude revealed that his way of life was nothing more than a strict and hollow observance of rules and outward manifestations of his convictions through self-aggrandizement and false holiness.5The compassionate and personalized ministering of Jesus in this account demonstrates a perfect model of how we should interact with our neighbor.
The scriptures have countless examples of how the Savior, moved by His deep and abiding compassion, interacted with people of His day and helped those who were suffering and those who had “fainted, and were scattered abroad, as sheep having no shepherd.”6 He extended His merciful hand to those who needed relief from their burdens, both physically and spiritually.7The compassionate attitude of Jesus is rooted in charity,8 namely, in His pure and perfect love, which is the essence of His atoning sacrifice.
Compassion is a fundamental characteristic of those who strive for sanctification, and this divine quality intertwines with other Christian traits such as mourning with those who mourn and having empathy, mercy, and kindness.9 The expression of compassion for others is, in fact, the essence of the gospel of Jesus Christ and a marked evidence of our spiritual and emotional closeness to the Savior.
Furthermore, it shows the level of influence He has on our way of life and demonstrates the magnitude of our spirits.It is meaningful to observe that Jesus’s compassionate acts were not occasional or mandated manifestations based on a list of tasks to be completed but everyday expressions of the reality of His pure love for God and His children and His abiding desire to help them.Jesus was able to identify people’s needs even at a distance.
Thus, it is not surprising, for example, that immediately after healing a certain centurion’s servant,10 Jesus traveled from Capernaum to the city called Nain.
It was there that Jesus performed one of the most tender miracles of His earthly ministry when He commanded a dead young man, the only son of a widowed mother, to rise and live.
Jesus sensed not only the intense suffering of that poor mother but also the difficult circumstances of her life, and He was moved by genuine compassion for her.11Just like the sinful woman and the widow of Nain, many people within our circle of influence are seeking comfort, attention, inclusion, and any help that we can offer them.
We all can be instruments in the Lord’s hands and act compassionately toward those in need, just as Jesus did.I know a little girl who was born with very serious cleft lips and a cleft palate.
She had to have the first of a series of many surgeries on the second day of her life.
Moved by a genuine compassion for those who experience this same challenge, this girl and her parents seek to give support, understanding, and emotional assistance to others who face this difficult reality.
They wrote to me recently and shared: “Through our daughter’s challenge, we had the opportunity to meet wonderful people who needed comfort, support, and encouragement.
Some time ago, our daughter, who is 11 years old now, talked with the parents of a baby with the same challenge.
During this conversation, our daughter momentarily took off the mask she was wearing due to the pandemic so the parents could see that there is hope, even though that baby still has a long way to go in the next few years to fix the problem.
We feel very grateful for the opportunity to extend our empathy to those who suffer, as the Savior does for us.
We feel we ease our pain every time we relieve someone else’s pain.”My dear friends, as we intentionally strive to incorporate a compassionate attitude into our way of life, as exemplified by the Savior, we will become more sensitive to people’s needs.
With that increased sensitivity, feelings of genuine interest and love will permeate our every action.
The Lord will recognize our efforts, and we will surely be blessed with opportunities to be instruments in His hands in softening hearts and in bringing relief to those whose “hands … hang down.”12Jesus’s admonition to Simon the Pharisee also made it clear that we should never make harsh and cruel judgment of our neighbor, because we are all in need of understanding and mercy for our imperfections from our loving Heavenly Father.
Wasn’t this exactly what the Savior taught on another occasion when He said, “And why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother’s eye, but considerest not the beam that is in thine own eye?”13We need to consider that it is not easy to understand all the circumstances that contribute to someone’s attitude or reaction.
Appearances can be deceptive and oftentimes do not represent an accurate measurement of someone’s behavior.
Unlike you and me, Christ is capable of clearly seeing all facets of a given situation.14 Even knowing all our weaknesses as He does, the Savior does not rashly condemn us but continues to work with us compassionately over time, helping us to remove the beam from our eye.
Jesus always looks on the heart and not on the appearance.15 He Himself declared, “Judge not according to the appearance.”16Now, consider the Savior’s wise counsel to the twelve Nephite disciples regarding this question:“And know ye that ye shall be judges of this people, according to the judgment which I shall give unto you, which shall be just.
Therefore, what manner of men ought ye to be?
Verily I say unto you, even as I am.”17“Therefore I would that ye should be perfect even as I, or your Father who is in heaven is perfect.”18In this context, the Lord fixes judgment upon those who take it upon themselves to judge the supposed shortcomings of others unrighteously.
In order to qualify ourselves to make righteous judgments, we must strive to become like the Savior and look at the imperfections of individuals compassionately, even through His eyes.
Considering we still have a long way to go to reach perfection, perhaps it would be better if we sit at Jesus’s feet and plead for mercy for our own imperfections, as did the repentant woman in the Pharisee’s house, and not spend so much time and energy fixating on the perceived imperfections of others.My dear friends, I testify that as we strive to incorporate the Savior’s compassionate example into our lives, our capacity to compliment the virtues of our neighbors will increase and our natural instinct to judge their imperfections will decrease.
Our communion with God will grow, and certainly our lives will become sweeter, our feelings more tender, and we will find a never-ending source of happiness.
We will be known as peacemakers,19 whose words are as gentle as the dew of a spring morning.I pray that we will become more long-suffering and understanding of others and that the Lord’s mercy will, in perfect meekness, soothe our impatience with their imperfections.
This is the Savior’s invitation to us.
I testify that He lives.
He is the perfect model of merciful and patient discipleship.
I bear my testimony of these truths in the holy name of the Savior Jesus Christ, amen.
Eighteen years after the First Vision, the Prophet Joseph Smith wrote an extensive account of his experience.
He had faced opposition, persecution, harassment, threats, and brutal attacks.1 Yet he continued to boldly testify of his First Vision: “I had actually seen a light, and in the midst of that light I saw two Personages, and they did in reality speak to me; and though I was hated and persecuted for saying that I had seen a vision, yet it was true.
… I knew it, and I knew that God knew it, and I could not deny it.”2In his difficult hours, Joseph’s memory reached back nearly two decades to the certainty of God’s love for him and the events that welcomed in the long-foretold Restoration.
Reflecting on his spiritual journey, Joseph said: “I don’t blame any one for not believing my history.
If I had not experienced what I have, I would not have believed it myself.”3But the experiences were real, and he never forgot or denied them, quietly confirming his testimony as he moved to Carthage.
“I am going like a lamb to the slaughter,” he said, “but I am calm as a summer’s morning; I have a conscience void of offense towards God, and towards all men.”4Your Spiritually Defining ExperiencesThere is a lesson for us in the Prophet Joseph’s example.
Along with the peaceful direction we receive from the Holy Ghost, from time to time, God powerfully and very personally assures each of us that He knows us and loves us and that He is blessing us specifically and openly.
Then, in our moments of difficulty, the Savior brings these experiences back into our mind.Think of your own life.
Over the years, I have listened to thousands of profoundly spiritual experiences from Latter-day Saints all across the world, confirming to me beyond any question that God knows and loves each of us and that He eagerly desires to reveal Himself to us.
These experiences may come at pivotal times in our lives or in what may at first seem as uneventful happenings, but they are always accompanied by an exceptionally strong spiritual confirmation of the love of God.Remembering these spiritually defining experiences takes us to our knees, declaring as did the Prophet Joseph: “What I received was from heaven.
I know it, and I know that God knows that I know it.”5Four ExamplesReflect on your own spiritually defining memories as I share a few examples from others.Years ago, an elderly stake patriarch with two failing heart valves pleaded for then-Dr. Russell M. Nelson to intervene, although at that time there was not a surgical solution for the damaged second valve.
Dr. Nelson finally agreed to do the surgery.
Here are President Nelson’s words:“After relieving the obstruction of the first valve, we exposed the second valve.
We found it to be intact but so badly dilated that it could no longer function as it should.
While examining this valve, a message was distinctly impressed upon my mind: Reduce the circumference of the ring.
I announced that message to my assistant.
‘The valve tissue will be sufficient if we can effectively reduce the ring toward its normal size.’“But how?
… A picture came vividly to my mind, showing how stitches could be placed—to make a pleat here and a tuck there.
… I still remember that mental image—complete with dotted lines where sutures should be placed.
The repair was completed as diagrammed in my mind.
We tested the valve and found the leak to be reduced remarkably.
My assistant said, ‘It’s a miracle.’”6 The patriarch lived for many years.Dr.
Nelson had been directed.
And he knew that God knew that he knew he had been directed.Kathy and I first met Beatrice Magré in France 30 years ago.
Beatrice recently told me of an experience that impacted her spiritual life shortly after her baptism as a teenager.
Here are her words:“The youth of our branch had traveled with their leaders to Lacanau Beach, an hour and a half from Bordeaux.“Before returning home, one of the leaders decided to take a last swim and dove into the waves with his glasses.
When he resurfaced, his glasses had disappeared.
… They were lost in the ocean.“The loss of his glasses would prevent him from driving his car.
We would be stranded far from home.“A sister filled with faith suggested that we pray.“I murmured that praying would avail us absolutely nothing, and I uneasily joined the group to pray publicly as we stood waist-deep in the murky water.“Once the prayer was over, I stretched my arms to splash everyone.
As I was sweeping the ocean’s surface, his pair of glasses rested in my hand.
A powerful feeling pierced my soul that God does actually hear and answer our prayers.”7Forty-five years later, she recalled it as if it had happened yesterday.
Beatrice had been blessed, and she knew that God knew that she knew that she had been blessed.The experiences of President Nelson and Sister Magré were very different, yet for both, an unforgettable spiritually defining memory of God’s love was embedded in their hearts.These defining events often come in learning about the restored gospel or in sharing the gospel with others.This picture was taken in São Paulo, Brazil, in 2004.
Floripes Luzia Damasio of the Ipatinga Brazil Stake was 114 years old.
Speaking of her conversion, Sister Damasio told me that missionaries in her village had given a priesthood blessing to a critically ill baby who miraculously recovered.
She wanted to know more.
As she prayed about their message, an undeniable witness of the Spirit confirmed to her that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God.
At 103, she was baptized, and at 104, she was endowed.
Every year after, she made the 14-hour bus ride to spend a week in the temple.
Sister Damasio had received a heavenly confirmation, and she knew that God knew that she knew that the witness was true.Here is a spiritual memory from my first mission to France 48 years ago.While tracting, my companion and I left a Book of Mormon with an elderly woman.
When we returned to the woman’s apartment about a week later, she opened the door.
Before any words were spoken, I felt a tangible spiritual power.
The intense feelings continued as Madame Alice Audubert invited us in and told us she had read the Book of Mormon and knew that it was true.
As we left her apartment that day, I prayed, “Heavenly Father, please help me to never forget what I have just felt.” I never have.In a seemingly ordinary moment, at a door much like hundreds of other doors, I had felt the power of heaven.
And I knew that God knew that I knew that a window of heaven had been opened.Individualized and UndeniableThese spiritually defining moments come at different times and in different ways, individualized for each of us.Think of your favorite examples in the scriptures.
Those listening to the Apostle Peter “were pricked in their heart[s].”8 The Lamanite woman Abish believed the “remarkable vision of her father.”9 And a voice came into the mind of Enos.10My friend Clayton Christensen described an experience during a very prayerful reading of the Book of Mormon this way: “A beautiful, warm, loving Spirit … surrounded me and permeated my soul, enveloping me in a feeling of love that I had not imagined I could feel [and these feelings continued night after night].”11There are times when spiritual feelings go down into our heart like fire, illuminating our soul.
Joseph Smith explained that we sometimes receive “sudden strokes of ideas” and occasionally the pure flow of intelligence.12President Dallin H. Oaks, in responding to a sincere man who claimed never to have had such an experience, counseled, “Perhaps your prayers have been answered again and again, but you have had your expectations fixed on a sign so grand or a voice so loud that you think you have had no answer.”13 The Savior Himself spoke of a people with great faith who “were [blessed] with fire and with the Holy Ghost, [but who] knew it not.”14How Do You Hear Him?We have recently heard President Russell M. Nelson say: “I invite you to think deeply and often about this key question: How do you hear Him?
I also invite you to take steps to hear Him better and more often.”15 He repeated that invitation this morning.We hear Him in our prayers, in our homes, in the scriptures, in our hymns, as we worthily partake of the sacrament, as we declare our faith, as we serve others, and as we attend the temple with fellow believers.
Spiritually defining moments come as we prayerfully listen to general conference and as we better keep the commandments.
And children, these experiences are for you as well.
Remember, Jesus “did teach and minister unto the children … and [the children] did speak … great and marvelous things.”16 The Lord said:“[This knowledge is] given by my Spirit unto you, … and save it were by my power you could not have [it];“Wherefore, you can testify that you have heard my voice, and know my words.”17We can “hear Him” because of the blessing of the Savior’s incomparable Atonement.While we cannot choose the timing of receiving these defining moments, President Henry B. Eyring gave this counsel in our preparation: “Tonight, and tomorrow night, you might pray and ponder, asking the questions: Did God send a message that was just for me?
Did I see His hand in my life or the lives of my [family]?”18 Faith, obedience, humility, and real intent open the windows of heaven.19An IllustrationYou might think of your spiritual memories this way.
With constant prayer, a determination to keep our covenants, and the gift of the Holy Ghost, we navigate our way through life.
When personal difficulty, doubt, or discouragement darken our path, or when world conditions beyond our control lead us to wonder about the future, the spiritually defining memories from our book of life are like luminous stones that help brighten the road ahead, assuring us that God knows us, loves us, and has sent His Son, Jesus Christ, to help us return home.
And when someone sets their defining memories aside and is lost or confused, we turn them toward the Savior as we share our faith and memories with them, helping them rediscover those precious spiritual moments they once treasured.Some experiences are so sacred that we guard them in our spiritual memory and do not share them.20“Angels speak by the power of the Holy Ghost; wherefore, they speak the words of Christ.”21“Angels [have not] ceased to minister unto the children of men.“For behold, they are subject unto [Christ], to minister according to … his command, showing themselves unto them of strong faith and a firm mind in every form of godliness.”22And “the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, … shall teach you all things, and bring all things to your remembrance.”23Embrace your sacred memories.
Believe them.
Write them down.
Share them with your family.
Trust that they come to you from your Heavenly Father and His Beloved Son.24 Let them bring patience to your doubts and understanding to your difficulties.25 I promise you that as you willingly acknowledge and carefully treasure the spiritually defining events in your life, more and more will come to you.
Heavenly Father knows you and loves you!Jesus is the Christ, His gospel has been restored, and as we remain faithful, I witness we will be His forever, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
Righteousness and unity are profoundly significant.1 When people love God with all their hearts and righteously strive to become like Him, there is less strife and contention in society.
There is more unity.
I love a true account that exemplifies this.As a young man not of our faith, General Thomas L. Kane assisted and defended the Saints as they were required to flee Nauvoo.
He was an advocate for the Church for many years.2In 1872, General Kane, his talented wife, Elizabeth Wood Kane, and their two sons traveled from their home in Pennsylvania to Salt Lake City.
They accompanied Brigham Young and his associates on a trek south to St. George, Utah.
Elizabeth approached her first visit to Utah with reservations about the women.
She was surprised by some of the things she learned.
For instance, she found that any career by which a woman could earn a living was open to them in Utah.3 She also found Church members were kind and understanding with respect to Native Americans.4During the trip they stayed in Fillmore at the home of Thomas R. and Matilda Robison King.5Elizabeth wrote that as Matilda was preparing a meal for President Young and his company, five American Indians came into the room.
Although uninvited, it was clear they expected to join the company.
Sister King spoke to them “in their dialect.” They sat down with their blankets with a pleasant look on their faces.
Elizabeth asked one of the King children, “What did your mother say to those men?”Matilda’s son’s reply was, “She said ‘These strangers came first, and I have only cooked enough for them; but your meal is on the fire cooking now, and I will call you as soon as it is ready.’”Elizabeth asked, “Will she really do that, or just give them scraps at the kitchen-door?”6Matilda’s son answered, “Mother will serve them just as she does you, and give them a place at her table.”And so she did, and “they ate with perfect propriety.” Elizabeth explained that this hostess rose 100 percent in her opinion.7 Unity is enhanced when people are treated with dignity and respect, even though they are different in outward characteristics.As leaders, we are not under the illusion that in the past all relationships were perfect, all conduct was Christlike, or all decisions were just.
However, our faith teaches that we are all children of our Father in Heaven, and we worship Him and His Son, Jesus Christ, who is our Savior.
Our desire is that our hearts and minds will be knit in righteousness and unity and that we will be one with Them.8Righteousness is a broad, comprehensive term but most certainly includes living God’s commandments.9 It qualifies us for the sacred ordinances that constitute the covenant path and blesses us to have the Spirit give direction to our lives.10Being righteous is not dependent on each of us having every blessing in our lives at this time.
We may not be married or blessed with children or have other desired blessings now.
But the Lord has promised that the righteous who are faithful “may dwell with God in a state of never-ending happiness.”11Unity is also a broad, comprehensive term but most certainly exemplifies the first and second great commandments to love God and love our fellowmen.12 It denotes a Zion people whose hearts and minds are “knit together in unity.”13The context for my message is the contrast and lessons from sacred scriptures.It has been 200 years since the Father and His Son first appeared and commenced the Restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ in 1820.
The account in 4 Nephi in the Book of Mormon includes a similar 200-year period after the Savior appeared and established His Church in ancient America.The historical record we read in 4 Nephi describes a people where there were no envyings, strifes, tumults, lyings, murders, or any manner of lasciviousness.
Because of this righteousness, the record states, “surely there could not be a happier people among all the people who had been created by the hand of God.”14With respect to unity, 4 Nephi reads, “There was no contention in the land, because of the love of God which did dwell in the hearts of the people.”15Unfortunately, 4 Nephi then describes a dramatic change that began in the “two hundred and first year,”16 when iniquity and division destroyed righteousness and unity.
The depths of depravity that then occurred were subsequently so evil that ultimately the great prophet Mormon laments to his son Moroni:“But O my son, how can a people like this, whose delight is in so much abomination—“How can we expect that God will stay his hand in judgment against us?”17In this dispensation, although we live in a special time, the world has not been blessed with the righteousness and unity described in 4 Nephi.
Indeed, we live in a moment of particularly strong divisions.
However, the millions who have accepted the gospel of Jesus Christ have committed themselves to achieving both righteousness and unity.
We are all aware that we can do better, and that is our challenge in this day.
We can be a force to lift and bless society as a whole.
At this 200-year hinge point in our Church history, let us commit ourselves as members of the Lord’s Church to live righteously and be united as never before.
President Russell M. Nelson has asked us “to demonstrate greater civility, racial and ethnic harmony and mutual respect.”18 This means loving each other and God and accepting everyone as brothers and sisters and truly being a Zion people.With our all-inclusive doctrine, we can be an oasis of unity and celebrate diversity.
Unity and diversity are not opposites.
We can achieve greater unity as we foster an atmosphere of inclusion and respect for diversity.
During the period I served in the San Francisco California Stake presidency, we had Spanish-, Tongan-, Samoan-, Tagalog-, and Mandarin-language-speaking congregations.
Our English-speaking wards were composed of people from many racial and cultural backgrounds.
There was love, righteousness, and unity.Wards and branches in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints are determined by geography or language,19 not by race or culture.
Race is not identified on membership records.Early in the Book of Mormon, approximately 550 years before the birth of Christ, we are taught the fundamental commandment regarding the relationship between Father in Heaven’s children.
All are to keep the Lord’s commandments, and all are invited to partake of the Lord’s goodness; “and he denieth none that come unto him, black and white, bond and free, male and female; and he remembereth the heathen; and all are alike unto God, both Jew and Gentile.”20The Savior’s ministry and message have consistently declared all races and colors are children of God.
We are all brothers and sisters.
In our doctrine we believe that in the host country for the Restoration, the United States, the U.S. Constitution21 and related documents,22 written by imperfect men, were inspired by God to bless all people.
As we read in the Doctrine and Covenants, these documents were “established, and should be maintained for the rights and protection of all flesh, according to just and holy principles.”23 Two of these principles were agency and accountability for one’s own sins.
The Lord declared:“Therefore, it is not right that any man should be in bondage one to another.“And for this purpose have I established the Constitution of this land, by the hands of wise men whom I raised up unto this very purpose, and redeemed the land by the shedding of blood.”24This revelation was received in 1833 when the Saints in Missouri were suffering great persecution.
The heading to Doctrine and Covenants section 101 reads in part: “Mobs had driven them from their homes in Jackson County.
… Threats of death against [members] of the Church were many.”25This was a time of tension on several fronts.
Many Missourians considered Native Americans a relentless enemy and wanted them removed from the land.
In addition, many of the Missouri settlers were slave owners and felt threatened by those who were opposed to slavery.In contrast, our doctrine respected the Native Americans, and our desire was to teach them the gospel of Jesus Christ.
With respect to slavery, our scriptures had made it clear that no man should be in bondage to another.26Ultimately, the Saints were violently driven out of Missouri27 and then forced to move to the West.28 The Saints prospered and found the peace that accompanies righteousness, unity, and living the gospel of Jesus Christ.I rejoice in the Savior’s Intercessory Prayer recorded in the Gospel of John.
The Savior acknowledged that the Father had sent Him and that He, the Savior, had finished the work He was sent to do.
He prayed for His disciples and for those who would believe in Christ: “That they all may be one; as thou, Father, art in me, and I in thee, that they also may be one in us.”29 Oneness is what Christ prayed for prior to His betrayal and Crucifixion.In the first year after the Restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ, recorded in section 38 of the Doctrine and Covenants, the Lord speaks of wars and wickedness and declares, “I say unto you, be one; and if ye are not one ye are not mine.”30Our Church culture comes from the gospel of Jesus Christ.
The Epistle of the Apostle Paul to the Romans is profound.31 The early Church in Rome was composed of Jews and Gentiles.
These early Jews had a Judaic culture and had “won their emancipation, and began to multiply and flourish.”32The Gentiles in Rome had a culture with a significant Hellenistic influence, which the Apostle Paul understood well because of his experiences at Athens and Corinth.Paul sets forth the gospel of Jesus Christ in a comprehensive fashion.
He chronicles pertinent aspects of both Judaic and Gentile culture33 that conflict with the true gospel of Jesus Christ.
He essentially asks each of them to leave behind cultural impediments from their beliefs and culture that are not consistent with the gospel of Jesus Christ.
Paul admonishes the Jews and the Gentiles to keep the commandments and love one another and affirms that righteousness leads to salvation.34The culture of the gospel of Jesus Christ is not a Gentile culture or a Judaic culture.
It is not determined by the color of one’s skin or where one lives.
While we rejoice in distinctive cultures, we should leave behind aspects of those cultures that conflict with the gospel of Jesus Christ.
Our members and new converts often come from diverse racial and cultural backgrounds.
If we are to follow President Nelson’s admonition to gather scattered Israel, we will find we are as different as the Jews and Gentiles were in Paul’s time.
Yet we can be united in our love of and faith in Jesus Christ.
Paul’s Epistle to the Romans establishes the principle that we follow the culture and doctrine of the gospel of Jesus Christ.
It is the model for us even today.35 The ordinances of the temple unite us in special ways and allow us to be one in every eternally significant way.We honor our pioneer members across the world not because they were perfect but because they overcame hardships, made sacrifices, aspired to be Christlike, and were striving to build faith and be one with the Savior.
Their oneness with the Savior made them one with each other.
This principle is true for you and me today.The clarion call to members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is to strive to be a Zion people who are of one heart and one mind and dwell in righteousness.36It is my prayer that we will be righteous and united and completely focused on serving and worshipping our Savior, Jesus Christ, of whom I testify.
In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
As I was leaving a Young Women camp this summer, a sweet young woman handed me a note.
In it, she asked, “How can I tell when God is trying to tell me something?” I love her question.
Our souls long for a connection with our heavenly home.
We want to feel needed and useful.
But at times we struggle to distinguish between our own thoughts and the gentle impressions of the Spirit.
Prophets, ancient and modern, have taught that if something “invites and entices to do good, it comes from Christ.”1President Russell M. Nelson has extended a simple, powerful invitation: “My beloved brothers and sisters, I plead with you to increase your spiritual capacity to receive revelation.
… Choose to do the spiritual work required to enjoy the gift of the Holy Ghost and hear the voice of the Spirit more frequently and more clearly.”2My desire this morning is to speak to you from my heart about four ways to increase your spiritual capacity to receive revelation.1.
Be Intentional about Creating Time and Space to Hear God’s VoiceAs you use your agency to carve out time every day to draw close to God’s voice, especially in the Book of Mormon, over time His voice will become clearer and more familiar to you.In contrast, the distractions and noise that fill the world and our homes and our lives can make it more difficult to hear His voice.
These distractions can so occupy our minds and hearts that we leave no room for the gentle promptings of the Holy Ghost.The Prophet Joseph Smith taught that most often God reveals Himself “to individuals in private, in their chamber; in the wilderness or fields, and that generally without noise or tumult.”3Satan wants to separate us from God’s voice by keeping us out of those quiet places.
If God speaks in a still, small voice, you and I need to draw close to hear Him.
Just imagine what would happen if we were as intent on staying connected with heaven as we are on staying connected to Wi-Fi!
Pick a time and place, and listen for God’s voice every day.
And keep this sacred appointment with exactness, for so very much depends on it!2.
Act without DelayWhen you receive promptings and then act with intention, the Lord can use you.
The more you act, the more familiar the voice of the Spirit becomes.
You will increasingly recognize God’s guidance and that He is “willing … to reveal His mind and will.”4 If you delay, you might forget the prompting or miss the chance to help someone for God.3.
Get Your Errand from the LordThe prayer Heavenly Father seems eager to answer is our plea to be led to someone who needs our help.
President Henry B. Eyring has taught us to seek revelation by asking God who we can help for Him.
“If you ask questions like that, the Holy Ghost will come and you’ll feel nudges about things you can do for other people.
When you go and do those things, you’re on the Lord’s errand, and when you’re on the Lord’s errand, you qualify for the gift of the Holy Ghost.”5You can pray and ask the Lord for an errand.
As you do, He can use your ordinary skills to accomplish His extraordinary work.My grandfather, Fritz Hjalmar Lundgren, emigrated from Sweden when he was 19 years old.
He arrived in America alone, with a suitcase and six years of formal schooling.
Unable to speak any English, he made his way to Oregon and worked there as a lumberjack and then later, with my grandmother and my mother, joined the Church.
He never presided over a ward, but as a faithful home teacher, he brought more than 50 different families into Church activity.
How did he do that?After Grandpa’s death, I was going through a box of his papers and came across a letter written by a man who had come back to church because of Grandpa’s love.
The letter read, “Brother Fritz’s secret, I believe, is that he is always on an errand for Heavenly Father.”That letter was from Brother Wayne Simonis.
Grandpa visited him and got to know each member of the family.
In time, Grandpa told them that they were needed and invited them to attend church.
But that Sunday, Brother Simonis awoke with a dilemma—he had not finished reroofing his house, and rain was expected that week.
He decided that he’d go to church, shake hands with Grandpa, and then leave and go home to finish the roof.
His family could attend sacrament meeting without him.His plan was working just fine until, on the roof, he heard someone climbing the ladder.
In his words: “When I looked up, … standing at the top of the ladder was Brother Fritz.
He just gave me that big smile.
At first, I was embarrassed and felt like a little kid getting caught for skipping school.
Then … I felt anger.
[But Brother Fritz just] took off his suit coat and hung it on the ladder.
As he rolled up the sleeves of his white shirt, he turned to me and said, ‘Brother Simonis, do you have another hammer?
This work must be very important or you wouldn’t have left your family, and if it’s that important, I want to help you.’ As I looked into his eyes, I saw only kindness and Christlike love.
My anger left.
… I laid my tools down that Sunday and followed my good friend down the ladder and back to the chapel.”Grandpa had obtained his errand from the Lord, and he knew he was to seek out lost sheep.
Just as when the four men who carried their friend with palsy onto a roof and then let him down to be healed by Jesus Christ,6 so too did Grandpa’s errand take him to a rooftop.
The Lord sends revelation to those seeking to help others.4.
Believe and TrustRecently, I read in the scriptures about another great missionary who obtained his errand from the Lord.
Aaron was teaching the king of the Lamanites, who wondered why Aaron’s brother Ammon had not also come to teach him.
“And Aaron said unto the king: Behold, the Spirit of the Lord has called him another way.”7The Spirit spoke to my heart: each of us has a different mission to perform, and at times the Spirit may call us in “another way.” There are many ways to build the kingdom of God as covenant-making, covenant-keeping disciples of Jesus Christ.
As His faithful disciple, you can receive personal inspiration and revelation, consistent with His commandments, that is tailored to you.
You have unique missions and roles to perform in life and will be given unique guidance to fulfill them.Nephi, the brother of Jared, and even Moses all had a large body of water to cross—and each did it differently.
Nephi worked “timbers of curious workmanship.”8 The brother of Jared built barges that were “tight like unto a dish.”9 And Moses “walked upon dry land in the midst of the sea.”10They each received personalized direction, tailored to them, and each trusted and acted.
The Lord is mindful of those who obey and, in the words of Nephi, will “prepare a way for [us to] accomplish the thing which he commandeth.”11 Note that Nephi says, “a way”—not “the way.”Do we miss or dismiss personal errands from the Lord because He has prepared “a way” different from the one we expect?My grandpa was led to an unusual place—in a suit, on a rooftop, on a Sunday.
Trust God to lead you, even if that way looks different than you expected or is different from others.Latter-day Saints come in many shapes and sizes, but “all are alike unto God”—“black and white, bond and free, male and female,” single and married, rich and poor, young and old, lifelong member and recent convert.12 No matter who you are or what you’re dealing with, you are invited to the Lord’s table.13As seeking and doing the will of the Father becomes the cadence of your daily life, you will, of course, be led to change and repent.The Church’s new program for children and youth is built on the foundation of learning to seek revelation, discovering what the Lord would have us do, and then acting on that direction.
Each one of us, regardless of age or circumstance, can strive to seek, receive, and act.
As you follow this eternal pattern ordained for our day, you will draw nearer to Jesus Christ—His love, His light, His direction, His peace, and His healing and enabling power.
And you will increase your spiritual capacity to become an everyday instrument of His hands in accomplishing His great work.
In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
IntroductionIsn’t it fascinating that significant scientific discoveries are sometimes inspired by events as simple as an apple falling from a tree?Today, let me share a discovery that happened because of a sample group of rabbits.In the 1970s, researchers set up an experiment to examine the effects of diet on heart health.
Over several months, they fed a control group of rabbits a high-fat diet and monitored their blood pressure, heart rate, and cholesterol.As expected, many of the rabbits showed a buildup of fatty deposits on the inside of their arteries.
Yet this was not all!
Researchers had discovered something that made little sense.
Although all of the rabbits had a buildup, one group surprisingly had as much as 60 percent less than the others.
It appeared as though they were looking at two different groups of rabbits.To scientists, results like this can cause lost sleep.
How could this be?
The rabbits were all the same breed from New Zealand, from a virtually identical gene pool.
They each received equal amounts of the same food.What could this mean?Did the results invalidate the study?
Were there flaws in the experiment design?The scientists struggled to understand this unexpected outcome!Eventually, they turned their attention to the research staff.
Was it possible that researchers had done something to influence the results?
As they pursued this, they discovered that every rabbit with fewer fatty deposits had been under the care of one researcher.
She fed the rabbits the same food as everyone else.
But, as one scientist reported, “she was an unusually kind and caring individual.” When she fed the rabbits, “she talked to them, cuddled and petted them.
… ‘She couldn’t help it.
It’s just how she was.’”1She did more than simply give the rabbits food.
She gave them love!At first glance, it seemed unlikely that this could be the reason for the dramatic difference, but the research team could see no other possibility.So they repeated the experiment—this time tightly controlling for every other variable.
When they analyzed the results, the same thing happened!
The rabbits under the care of the loving researcher had significantly higher health outcomes.The scientists published the results of this study in the prestigious journal Science.2Years later the findings of this experiment still seem influential in the medical community.
In recent years, Dr. Kelli Harding published a book titled The Rabbit Effect that takes its name from the experiment.
Her conclusion: “Take a rabbit with an unhealthy lifestyle.
Talk to it.
Hold it.
Give it affection.
… The relationship made a difference.
… Ultimately,” she concludes, “what affects our health in the most meaningful ways has as much to do with how we treat one another, how we live, and how we think about what it means to be human.”3In a secular world, bridges connecting science with gospel truths sometimes seem few and far between.
Yet as Christians, followers of Jesus Christ, Latter-day Saints, the results of this scientific study may seem more intuitive than astonishing.
For me, this lays another brick in the foundation of kindness as a fundamental, healing gospel principle—one that can heal hearts emotionally, spiritually, and, as demonstrated here, even physically.Hearts Knit TogetherWhen asked, “Master, which is the great commandment?” the Savior replied to “love the Lord thy God with all thy heart,” followed by, “Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself.”4 The Savior’s response reinforces our heavenly duty.
An ancient prophet commanded “that there should be no contention one with another, but that [we] should look forward … , having [our] hearts knit together in unity and in love one towards another.”5 We are further taught that “power or influence … ought to be maintained … by gentleness and meekness, … by kindness, … without guile.”6I believe this principle has a universal application to all Latter-day Saints: adults, youth, and children.With that in mind, let me speak directly to you who are Primary-age children for a moment.You already understand how important it is to be kind.
The chorus of one of your Primary songs, “I’m Trying to Be like Jesus,” teaches:Love one another as Jesus loves you.Try to show kindness in all that you do.Be gentle and loving in deed and in thought,For these are the things Jesus taught.7Even still, you may sometimes have a hard time.
Here is a story that might help you about a Primary boy named Minchan Kim from South Korea.
His family joined the Church about six years ago.“One day at school, a few of my classmates were making fun of another student by calling him names.
It looked like fun, so for a few weeks I joined in with them.“Several weeks later, the boy told me even though he pretended he didn’t care, he was hurt by our words, and he cried every night.
I almost cried when he told me.
I felt very sorry and wanted to help him.
The next day I went up to him and put my arm around his shoulder and apologized, saying, ‘I’m really sorry that I made fun of you.’ He nodded at my words, and his eyes filled up with tears.“But the other kids were still making fun of him.
Then I remembered what I learned in Primary class: choose the right.
So I asked my classmates to stop.
Most of them decided not to change, and they were mad at me.
But one of the other boys said he was sorry, and the three of us became good friends.“Even though a few people still made fun of him, he felt better because he had us.“I chose the right by helping a friend in need.”8Isn’t this a good example for you to try to become like Jesus?Now, for young men and young women, as you grow older, making fun of others can evolve very dangerously.
Anxiety, depression, and worse are often the companions of bullying.
“While bullying is not a new concept, social media and technology have brought bullying to a new level.
It becomes a more constant, ever-present threat—cyberbullying.”9Clearly, the adversary is using this to hurt your generation.
There is no place for this in your cyberspace, neighborhoods, schools, quorums, or classes.
Please do all you can to make these places kinder and safer.
If you passively observe or participate in any of this, I know of no better advice than that previously given by Elder Dieter F. Uchtdorf:“When it comes to hating, gossiping, ignoring, ridiculing, holding grudges, or wanting to cause harm, please apply the following:“Stop it!”10Did you hear that?
Stop it!
As you extend yourself with kindness, care, and compassion, even digitally, I promise that you will lift up arms that hang down and will heal hearts.Having spoken to Primary children and youth, I now direct my remarks to adults of the Church.
We have a primary responsibility to set a tone and be role models of kindness, inclusion, and civility—to teach Christlike behavior to the rising generation in what we say and how we act.
It is especially important as we observe a marked societal shift toward division in politics, social class, and nearly every other man-made distinction.President M. Russell Ballard has also taught that Latter-day Saints must be kind not only to each other but also to everyone around us.
He observed: “Occasionally I hear of members offending those of other faiths by overlooking them and leaving them out.
This can occur especially in communities where our members are the majority.
I have heard about narrow-minded parents who tell children that they cannot play with a particular child in the neighborhood simply because his or her family does not belong to our Church.
This kind of behavior is not in keeping with the teachings of the Lord Jesus Christ.
I cannot comprehend why any member of our Church would allow these kinds of things to happen.
… I have never heard the members of this Church urged to be anything but loving, kind, tolerant, and benevolent to our friends and neighbors of other faiths.”11The Lord expects us to teach that inclusion is a positive means toward unity and that exclusion leads to division.As followers of Jesus Christ, we are dismayed when we hear of how children of God are mistreated based on their race.
We have been heartbroken to hear of recent attacks on people who are Black, Asian, Latino, or of any other group.
Prejudice, racial tension, or violence should never have any place in our neighborhoods, communities, or within the Church.Let each of us, no matter our age, strive to be our best.Love Your EnemyAs you strive to extend yourself in love, respect, and kindness, you will undoubtedly be hurt or negatively affected by the bad choices of others.
What do we do then?
We follow the Lord’s admonition to “love your enemies … and pray for them which despitefully use you.”12We do all we can to overcome the adversity that is placed in our path.
We strive to endure to the end, all the time praying that the hand of the Lord will change our circumstances.
We offer thanksgiving for those He places in our path to assist us.I am moved by an example of this from our early Church history.
During the winter of 1838, Joseph Smith and other Church leaders were detained in Liberty Jail when the Latter-day Saints were forcibly driven from their homes in the state of Missouri.
The Saints were destitute, friendless, and suffering greatly from the cold and lack of resources.
The residents of Quincy, Illinois, saw their desperate plight and reached out in compassion and friendship.Wandle Mace, a resident of Quincy, later recalled when he first saw the Saints along the Mississippi River in makeshift tents: “Some had sheets stretched, to make a little shelter from the wind, … the children were shivering around a fire which the wind blew about so it done them very little good.
The poor Saints were suffering terribly.”13Seeing the plight of the Saints, Quincy residents rallied together to provide aid, some even assisting in transporting their new friends across the river.
Mace continued: “[They] donated liberally; the merchants vying with each other as to which could be the most liberal … with … pork, … sugar, … shoes and clothing, everything these poor outcasts so much needed.”14 Before long, the refugees outnumbered the Quincy residents, who opened their homes and shared their meager resources at great personal sacrifice.15Many Saints survived the harsh winter only because of the compassion and generosity of the residents of Quincy.
These earthly angels opened their hearts and homes, bringing lifesaving nourishment, warmth, and—perhaps most importantly—a hand of friendship to the suffering Saints.
Although their stay in Quincy was relatively short, the Saints never forgot their debt of gratitude toward their beloved neighbors, and Quincy became known as the “city of refuge.”16When adversity and affliction are brought upon us by critical, negative, even mean-spirited acts, we can choose to hope in Christ.
This hope comes from His invitation and promise to “be of good cheer, for I will lead you along”17 and that He will consecrate your afflictions for your gain.18The Good ShepherdLet us conclude where we began: a compassionate caregiver, extending herself in kindness with a nurturing spirit, and an unexpected outcome—healing the hearts of animals over whom she had stewardship.
Why?
Because it was just how she was!As we look through a gospel lens, we recognize that we too are under the watchcare of a compassionate caregiver, who extends Himself in kindness and a nurturing spirit.
The Good Shepherd knows each one of us by name and has a personal interest in us.19 The Lord Jesus Christ Himself said: “I am the good shepherd, and know my sheep.
… And I [will] lay down my life for the sheep.”20On this holy Easter weekend, I find abiding peace in knowing that “the Lord is my shepherd”21 and that each of us is known by Him and under His kind watchcare.
When we confront life’s wind and rainstorms, sickness and injuries, the Lord—our Shepherd, our Caregiver—will nourish us with love and kindness.
He will heal our hearts and restore our souls.Of this I testify—and of Jesus Christ as our Savior and our Redeemer—in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
My dear brothers and sisters, I am grateful to have been invited to speak to you in this 189th Annual General Conference of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
On this date in 1830, Joseph Smith organized the Church under the direction of the Lord.
It was done in the Whitmer family home near Fayette, New York.
There were six members and about 50 other interested people there that day.Although I don’t know what the Prophet Joseph said or how he looked when he stood before that little group, I know what those people with faith in Jesus Christ felt.
They felt the Holy Ghost, and they felt that they were in a holy place.
They surely felt that they were united as one.That miraculous feeling is what we all want in our homes.
It is a feeling that comes from being, as Paul described, “spiritually minded.”1My purpose today is to teach what I know of how we can qualify for that feeling more often and invite it to last longer in our families.
As you know from experience, that is not easy to do.
Contention, pride, and sin have to be kept at bay.
The pure love of Christ must come into the hearts of those in our family.Adam and Eve, Lehi and Sariah, and other parents we know from scripture found that to be a hard challenge.
Yet there are encouraging examples of sustained felicity in families and homes to reassure us.
And those examples let us see the way it can happen for us and our families.
You remember the account from 4 Nephi:“And it came to pass that there was no contention in the land, because of the love of God which did dwell in the hearts of the people.“And there were no envyings, nor strifes, nor tumults, nor whoredoms, nor lyings, nor murders, nor any manner of lasciviousness; and surely there could not be a happier people among all the people who had been created by the hand of God.“There were no robbers, nor murderers, neither were there Lamanites, nor any manner of -ites; but they were in one, the children of Christ, and heirs to the kingdom of God.“And how blessed were they!
For the Lord did bless them in all their doings; yea, even they were blessed and prospered until an hundred and ten years had passed away; and the first generation from Christ had passed away, and there was no contention in all the land.”2As you know, that happy time did not endure forever.
The account in 4 Nephi describes the eventual symptoms of spiritual decline among a group of good people.
It is a pattern that has appeared over the ages in entire peoples, in congregations, and, most sadly, in families.
By studying that pattern, we can see how we might protect and even increase the feelings of love in our family.Here is the pattern of decline that appeared after 200 years of living in the perfect peace the gospel brings:Pride crept in.The people stopped sharing what they had with each other.They began to see themselves in classes above or below each other.They began to diminish in their faith in Jesus Christ.They began to hate.They began to commit all kinds of sin.Wise parents will be alert enough to notice those symptoms when they appear among their family members.
They will, of course, be concerned.
But they will know that the underlying cause is the influence of Satan trying to lead good people down a path to sin and thus to lose the influence of the Holy Ghost.
So the wise parent will see that opportunity lies in leading each child, and themselves, to accept more fully the Lord’s invitation to come unto Him.You could have limited success by calling a child to repent, for instance, of pride.
You might try persuading children to share what they have more generously.
You could ask them to stop feeling they are better than someone else in the family.
But then you come to the symptom I described earlier as “They began to diminish in their faith in Jesus Christ.”There is the key to leading your family to rise to that spiritual place you want for them—and for you to be there with them.
As you help them grow in faith that Jesus Christ is their loving Redeemer, they will feel a desire to repent.
As they do, humility will begin to replace pride.
As they begin to feel what the Lord has given them, they will want to share more generously.
Rivalry for prominence or recognition will diminish.
Hate will be driven out by love.
And finally, like it did for the people converted by King Benjamin, the desire to do good will fortify them against temptation to sin.
King Benjamin’s people testified that they had “no more disposition to do evil.”3So building faith in Jesus Christ is the beginning of reversing spiritual decline in your family and in your home.
That faith is more likely to bring repentance than your preaching against each symptom of spiritual decline.You will best lead by example.
Family members and others must see you growing in your own faith in Jesus Christ and in His gospel.
You have recently been provided great help.
Parents in the Church have been blessed with an inspired curriculum for families and individuals.
As you use it, you will build your faith and the faith of your children in the Lord Jesus Christ.Growing in FaithYour faith in the Savior has grown as you followed President Russell M. Nelson’s suggestion to reread the Book of Mormon.
You marked passages and words that referred to the Savior.
Your faith in Jesus Christ grew.
But like a new plant, such faith in Jesus Christ will wither unless you find continued resolve to ponder and pray to increase it.Your example of growing in faith may not be followed by all members of your family now.
But take heart from the experience of Alma the Younger.
In his painful need for repentance and forgiveness, he remembered his father’s faith in Jesus Christ.
Your children may remember your faith in the Savior at a moment when they desperately need repentance.
Alma said of such a moment:“And it came to pass that as I was thus racked with torment, while I was harrowed up by the memory of my many sins, behold, I remembered also to have heard my father prophesy unto the people concerning the coming of one Jesus Christ, a Son of God, to atone for the sins of the world.“Now, as my mind caught hold upon this thought, I cried within my heart: O Jesus, thou Son of God, have mercy on me, who am in the gall of bitterness, and am encircled about by the everlasting chains of death.“And now, behold, when I thought this, I could remember my pains no more; yea, I was harrowed up by the memory of my sins no more.”4Praying with LoveIn addition to your example of growing in faith, your praying as a family can play a crucial part in making home a sacred place.
One person is usually chosen as voice to pray for the family.
When the prayer is clearly to God in behalf of the people kneeling and listening, faith grows in all of them.
They can feel expressions of love for Heavenly Father and for the Savior.
And when the person who prays mentions those who are kneeling in that circle who are in need, all can feel love for them and for each member of the family.Even when family members are not living in the home, prayer can build bonds of love.
Prayer in the family can reach across the world.
More than once I have learned that a family member far away was praying at the same moment for the same thing as I was.
For me, the old saying “The family that prays together stays together” could be expanded to “The family that prays together is together, even when they are far apart.”Teaching Early RepentanceBecause none of us is perfect and feelings are easily hurt, families can become sacred sanctuaries only as we repent early and sincerely.
Parents can set an example.
Harsh words or unkind thoughts can be repented of quickly and sincerely.
A simple “I am sorry” can heal wounds and invite both forgiveness and love.The Prophet Joseph Smith was a model for us as he dealt with vicious attacks, with traitors, and even with disagreements in his family.
He forgave quickly, even though he knew the attacker might attack again.
He asked for forgiveness, and he gave it freely.5Cultivating the Missionary SpiritThe sons of Mosiah were determined to offer the gospel to everyone.
This desire came from their personal experience with repentance.
They could not bear the thought of any person suffering the effects of sin as they had.
So they faced years of rejection, hardship, and danger to offer the gospel of Jesus Christ to their enemies.
In the process, they found joy in the many who repented and experienced the joy of forgiveness through the Atonement of Jesus Christ.Our family members will grow in their desire to share the gospel as they feel the joy of forgiveness.
That can come even as they renew covenants when they partake of the sacrament.
The missionary spirit will grow in our homes as children and parents feel the joy of forgiveness in the sacrament service.
By their example of reverence, both parents and children can help each other feel that joy.
That joy can go far in turning our homes into missionary training centers.
All might not serve missions, but all will feel the desire to share the gospel, which has brought them to feel forgiveness and peace.
And whether currently serving full-time or not, all can feel joy in offering the gospel to others.Visiting the TempleFor both parents and children, the temple is the best opportunity to gain a feeling for and a love of heavenly places.
That is especially true when the children are young.
Children are born with the Light of Christ.
Even a baby can feel that a temple is sacred.
Because parents love their little children, the temple represents for them the hope that they can have their children to love in their eternal family—forever.Some of you have photographs of temples in your homes.
As temples are being added across the earth, it is possible for many parents to visit temple grounds with their families.
A few may even be able to attend open houses when temples are built.
Parents can ask children how they felt to be near or in a temple.Every parent can bear testimony of what a temple has meant to him or her.
President Ezra Taft Benson, who loved temples, spoke often of watching his mother carefully press her temple clothing.6 He spoke of his memory as a boy watching his family as they left his home to attend the temple.When he was the President of the Church, he attended the temple the same day each week.
He always did the temple work for an ancestor.
It came largely from the example of his parents.My TestimonyYou will find some of your greatest joys in your efforts to make your home a place of faith in the Lord Jesus Christ and a place that is permeated with love, the pure love of Christ.
The Restoration of the gospel started with a humble question pondered in a humble home, and it can continue in each of our homes as we continue to establish and practice gospel principles there.
This has been my hope and my deepest desire since I was a little boy.
You have all had glimpses of such homes.
Many of you have, with the Lord’s help, created them.Some have tried with full heart for that blessing, yet it has not been granted.
My promise to you is one that a member of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles once made to me.
I had said to him that because of choices some in our extended family had made, I doubted that we could be together in the world to come.
He said, as well as I can remember, “You are worrying about the wrong problem.
You just live worthy of the celestial kingdom, and the family arrangements will be more wonderful than you can imagine.”I believe that he would extend that happy hope to any of us in mortality who have done all we can to qualify ourselves and our family members for eternal life.
I know that Heavenly Father’s plan is a plan of happiness.
I testify that His plan makes it possible for each of us who has done the best we can to be sealed in a family forever.I know that the priesthood keys restored to Joseph Smith were passed on in an unbroken line to President Russell M. Nelson.
Those keys make possible the sealing of families today.
I know that Heavenly Father loves us, His spirit children, with a perfect love.
I know that because of the Atonement of Jesus Christ, we can repent, be cleansed, and become worthy to live in loving families forever with our Heavenly Father and with His Beloved Son, Jesus Christ.
I so testify in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
Last April, I had the privilege of dedicating the Kinshasa Democratic Republic of the Congo Temple.1 Words cannot express the joy the faithful Congolese and I felt to see a temple dedicated in their land.Individuals who enter the Kinshasa Temple see an original painting entitled Congo Falls.2 It uniquely reminds temple-goers of the unwavering commitment required to anchor themselves to Jesus Christ and to follow the covenant path of our Heavenly Father’s plan.
The waterfalls depicted in the painting call to mind a practice that was common more than a century ago among early converts to Christianity in Congo.Before their conversion, they worshipped inanimate objects, believing that the items possessed supernatural powers.3 After conversion, many made a pilgrimage to one of the countless waterfalls along the Congo River, such as the Nzongo Falls.4 These converts threw their previously idolized objects into the waterfalls as a symbol to God and others that they had discarded their old traditions and accepted Jesus Christ.
They intentionally did not throw their objects into calm, shallow waters; they threw them into the churning waters of a massive waterfall, where the items became unrecoverable.
These actions were a token of a new but unwavering commitment to Jesus Christ.People in other places and ages demonstrated their commitment to Jesus Christ in similar ways.5 The Book of Mormon people known as the Anti-Nephi-Lehies “laid down the weapons of their rebellion,” burying them “deep in the earth” as “a testimony to God … that they never would use [their] weapons again.”6 In doing so, they promised to follow God’s teachings and never go back on their commitment.
This action was the beginning of being “converted unto the Lord” and never falling away.7Being “converted unto the Lord” means leaving one course of action, directed by an old belief system, and adopting a new one based on faith in Heavenly Father’s plan and in Jesus Christ and His Atonement.
This change is more than an intellectual acceptance of gospel teachings.
It shapes our identity, transforms our understanding of life’s meaning, and leads to unchanging fidelity to God.
Personal desires that are contrary to being anchored to the Savior and to following the covenant path fade away and are replaced by a determination to submit to the will of Heavenly Father.Being converted unto the Lord starts with an unwavering commitment to God, followed by making that commitment part of who we are.
Internalizing such a commitment is a lifelong process that requires patience and ongoing repentance.
Eventually, this commitment becomes part of who we are, embedded in our sense of self, and ever present in our lives.
Just as we never forget our own name no matter what else we are thinking about, we never forget a commitment that is etched in our hearts.8God invites us to cast our old ways completely out of reach and begin a new life in Christ.
This happens as we develop faith in the Savior, which begins by hearing the testimony of those who have faith.9 Thereafter, faith deepens as we act in ways that anchor us more firmly to Him.10Now, it would be nice if increased faith were transmitted like the flu or the common cold.
Then a simple “spiritual sneeze” would build faith in others.
But it does not work that way.
The only way faith grows is for an individual to act in faith.
These actions are often prompted by invitations extended by others, but we cannot “grow” someone else’s faith or rely solely on others to bolster our own.
For our faith to grow, we must choose faith-building actions, such as praying, studying the scriptures, partaking of the sacrament, keeping the commandments, and serving others.As our faith in Jesus Christ grows, God invites us to make promises with Him.
These covenants, as such promises are known, are manifestations of our conversion.
Covenants also create a sure foundation for spiritual progression.
As we choose to be baptized, we begin to take upon ourselves the name of Jesus Christ11 and choose to identify ourselves with Him.
We pledge to become like Him and to develop His attributes.Covenants anchor us to the Savior and propel us along the path that leads to our heavenly home.
The power of covenants helps us maintain the mighty change of heart, deepen our conversion to the Lord, and receive Christ’s image more fully in our countenance.12 But a half-hearted commitment to our covenants will not guarantee us anything.13 We may be tempted to equivocate, throw our old ways in calm water, or bury our weapons of rebellion with the handles sticking out.
But an ambivalent commitment to our covenants will not open the door to the sanctifying power of Heavenly Father and Jesus Christ.Our commitment to keep our covenants should not be conditional or vary with changing circumstances in our lives.
Our constancy to God should be like the dependable Congo River that flows near the Kinshasa Temple.
This river, unlike most rivers in the world, has constant flow all year14 and pours nearly 11 million gallons (41.5 million L) of water per second into the Atlantic Ocean.The Savior invited His disciples to be this dependable and steadfast.
He said, “Wherefore, settle this in your hearts, that ye will do the things which I shall teach, and command you.”15 A “settled” determination to keep our covenants allows for the full realization of God’s promise of enduring joy.16Many faithful Latter-day Saints have demonstrated that they are “settled” in keeping their covenants with God and are forever changed.
Let me tell you about three such individuals—Brother Banza Mucioko, Sister Banza Régine, and Brother Mbuyi Nkitabungi.In 1977 the Banzas lived in Kinshasa in the country of Zaire, now known as the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
They were highly respected in their Protestant church community.
Because of their talents, their church arranged for their young family to go to Switzerland to study and provided a university scholarship.While in Geneva, on the bus route to school, Brother Banza frequently saw a small meetinghouse with the name “The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.” He wondered, “Does Jesus Christ have Saints now, in the latter days?” He eventually decided to go and see.Brother and Sister Banza were greeted warmly at the branch.
They asked some of the persistent questions they had about the nature of God, such as, “If God is a spirit, like the wind, how could we be created in His likeness?
How could He sit on a throne?” They had never received a satisfactory answer until the missionaries explained restored doctrine in a brief lesson.
When the missionaries left, the Banzas looked at each other and said, “Isn’t this the truth that we have heard?” They continued coming to church and meeting with the missionaries.
They knew that baptism in the restored Church of Jesus Christ would have consequences.
They would be stripped of their scholarships, their visas would be revoked, and they and their two young children would be required to leave Switzerland.
They chose to be baptized and confirmed in October 1979.Two weeks after their baptism, Brother and Sister Banza returned to Kinshasa as the first and second members of the Church in their country.
The members of the Geneva Branch stayed in contact with them and helped them connect with Church leaders.
The Banzas were encouraged to faithfully await the promised time when God would establish His Church in Zaire.Meanwhile, another exchange student from Zaire, Brother Mbuyi, was studying in Belgium.
He was baptized in 1980 in the Brussels Ward.
Soon thereafter, he served a full-time mission to England.
And God worked His miracles.
Brother Mbuyi returned to Zaire as the third member of the Church in his country.
With parental permission, Church meetings were held in his family home.
In February 1986 a petition was made for official government recognition of the Church.
The signatures of three citizens of Zaire were required.
The three happy signatories of the petition were Brother Banza, Sister Banza, and Brother Mbuyi.These stalwart members knew the truth when they heard it; they made a covenant at baptism that anchored them to the Savior.
They metaphorically threw their old ways into a churning waterfall with no intention of retrieving them.
The covenant path was never easy.
Political turmoil, infrequent contact with Church leaders, and challenges inherent in building a community of Saints might have deterred less-committed individuals.
But Brother and Sister Banza and Brother Mbuyi persevered in their faith.
They were present at the dedication of the Kinshasa Temple, 33 years after they signed the petition that led to the official recognition of the Church in Zaire.The Banzas are here in the Conference Center today.
They are accompanied by their two sons, Junior and Phil, and daughters-in-law, Annie and Youyou.
In 1986, Junior and Phil were the first two individuals baptized into the Church in Zaire.
Brother Mbuyi is watching these proceedings from Kinshasa with his wife, Maguy, and their five children.These pioneers understand the meaning and consequences of covenants through which they have been brought “to the knowledge of the Lord their God, and to rejoice in Jesus Christ their Redeemer.”17How do we anchor ourselves to the Savior and remain faithful like these and many tens of thousands of Congolese Saints who followed them and millions of others throughout the world?
The Savior taught us how.
Each week we partake of the sacrament and make a covenant with our Heavenly Father.
We promise to link our identity with the Savior’s by pledging our willingness to take upon us His name, to always remember Him, and to keep His commandments.18 Conscientiously preparing for and worthily making these covenants each week anchors us to the Savior, helps us internalize our commitment,19 and powerfully propels us along the covenant path.I invite you to commit to a lifelong process of discipleship.
Make and keep covenants.
Throw your old ways into deep, churning waterfalls.
Completely bury your weapons of rebellion with no handles sticking out.
Because of the Atonement of Jesus Christ, making covenants with a real intent to reliably honor them will bless your life forever.
You will become more like the Savior as you always remember Him, follow Him, and adore Him.
I testify that He is the firm foundation.
He is dependable, and His promises are sure.
In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
The prayer of Elder Maynes at the beginning of this first session of general conference is being answered.
Inspiration has come to us through wonderful messages and beautiful music.
The promise of President Russell M. Nelson that this conference will be memorable is already beginning to be fulfilled.President Nelson has designated this year as “a bicentennial period commemorating 200 years since God the Father and His Beloved Son, Jesus Christ, appeared to Joseph Smith in a vision.” President Nelson invited us to make a personal plan to prepare ourselves for this historic conference, which commemoration he said would be “a hinge point in the history of the Church, and your part is vital.”1Like me, perhaps you heard his message and asked yourself, “In what way is my part vital?” Perhaps you read and prayed about the events of the Restoration.
Perhaps, more than ever before, you read the accounts of those few times when God the Father introduced His Beloved Son.
Perhaps you read of the instances when the Savior spoke to the children of our Heavenly Father.
I know I did all of those things and more.I found references in my reading to the priesthood of God and the opening of dispensations.
I was humbled as I realized that my preparation for this conference was a hinge point in my personal history.
I felt changes in my heart.
I felt new gratitude.
I felt filled with joy at the prospect of being invited to participate in this celebration of the ongoing Restoration.I imagine that others are feeling, because of careful preparation, more joyful, more optimistic, and more determined to serve in any capacity needed by the Lord.The transcendent events we honor were the beginning of the prophesied last dispensation, in which the Lord is preparing His Church and His people, those who bear His name, to receive Him.
As part of our preparation for His coming, He will lift each of us so we may rise to spiritual challenges and opportunities unlike any seen in the history of this world.In September 1840, the Prophet Joseph Smith and his counselors in the First Presidency declared the following: “The work of the Lord in these last days, is one of vast magnitude and almost beyond the comprehension of mortals.
Its glories are past description, and its grandeur unsurpassable.
It is the theme which has animated the bosom of prophets and righteous men from the creation of the world down through every succeeding generation to the present time; and it is truly the dispensation of the fullness of times, when all things which are in Christ Jesus, whether in heaven or on the earth, shall be gathered together in Him, and when all things shall be restored, as spoken of by all the holy prophets since the world began; for in it will take place the glorious fulfilment of the promises made to the fathers, while the manifestations of the power of the Most High will be great, glorious, and sublime.”They went on to say: “We feel disposed to go forward and unite our energies for the upbuilding of the Kingdom, and establishing the Priesthood in their fullness and glory.
The work which has to be accomplished in the last days is one of vast importance, and will call into action the energy, skill, talent, and ability of the Saints, so that it may roll forth with that glory and majesty described by the prophet [Daniel] [see Daniel 2:34–35, 44–45]; and will consequently require the concentration of the Saints, to accomplish works of such magnitude and grandeur.”2Many of the specifics of what we will do and when we will do it in the unfolding Restoration are not yet revealed.
Yet the First Presidency even in those early days knew some of the breadth and depth of the work the Lord has set before us.
Here are a few examples of what we do know will take place:Through His Saints, the Lord will offer the gift of His gospel “to every nation, kindred, tongue, and people.”3 Technology and miracles will continue to play a part—as will individual “fishers of men”4 who minister with power and increasing faith.We as a people will become more united amid increasing conflict.
We will be gathered in the spiritual strength of groups and families filled with gospel light.Even an unbelieving world will recognize The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and realize the power of God upon it.
Faithful and brave disciples will fearlessly, humbly, and openly take upon them the name of Christ in their everyday lives.How, then, can each of us participate in this work of such magnitude and grandeur?
President Nelson has taught us how to grow in spiritual power.
When we take repentance as a joyful opportunity because of our growing faith that Jesus is the Christ, when we understand and believe that Heavenly Father hears our every prayer, when we strive to obey and live the commandments, we grow in our power to receive continuing revelation.
The Holy Ghost can be our constant companion.
A feeling of light will stay with us even as the world around us becomes darker.Joseph Smith is an example of how to grow in such spiritual power.
He showed us that the prayer of faith is the key to revelation from God.
He prayed in faith, believing that God the Father would answer his prayer.
He prayed in faith, believing that only through Jesus Christ could he be freed from the guilt he felt for his sins.
And he prayed in faith, believing that he needed to find the true Church of Jesus Christ to gain that forgiveness.Throughout his prophetic ministry, Joseph Smith used prayers of faith to obtain continuous revelation.
As we face today’s challenges and those yet to come, we too will need to practice the same pattern.
President Brigham Young said, “I do not know any other way for the Latter-day Saints than for every breath to be virtually a prayer for God to guide and direct his people.”5These words from the sacrament prayer should then describe our daily life: “Always remember him.” “Him” refers to Jesus Christ.
The next words, “and keep his commandments,” suggest what it means for us to remember Him.6 As we remember Jesus Christ always, we might ask in silent prayer, “What would He have me do?”Such prayer, offered in faith in Jesus Christ, ushered in this last dispensation.
And it will be at the heart of the part each of us will play in its continuing unfolding.
I have found, as you have, wonderful examples of such prayer.First is Joseph Smith.
He asked in childlike faith what the Lord would have him do.
His answer changed the history of the world.To me, an important lesson comes from Joseph’s response to Satan’s assault as Joseph knelt to pray.I know from experience that Satan and his servants try to make us feel that we must not pray.
When Joseph Smith exerted all his powers to call upon God to deliver him from the power that tried to bind him, his prayer for relief was answered and Heavenly Father and Jesus Christ appeared.Satan’s attempt to thwart the beginning of the Restoration was so severe because Joseph’s prayer was so important.
You and I will have smaller parts to play in the ongoing Restoration.
Yet the enemy of the Restoration will try to stop us from praying.
The example of Joseph’s faith and his determination can strengthen us in our resolve.
This is one of many reasons why my prayers include thanks to Heavenly Father for the Prophet Joseph.Enos in the Book of Mormon is another model for my prayer of faith as I try to play my part in the continuing Restoration.
Whatever your part will be, you could take him as a personal mentor.Like Joseph, Enos prayed in faith.
He described his experience this way:“And my soul hungered; and I kneeled down before my Maker, and I cried unto him in mighty prayer and supplication for mine own soul; and all the day long did I cry unto him; yea, and when the night came I did still raise my voice high that it reached the heavens.“And there came a voice unto me, saying: Enos, thy sins are forgiven thee, and thou shalt be blessed.“And I, Enos, knew that God could not lie; wherefore, my guilt was swept away.“And I said: Lord, how is it done?“And he said unto me: Because of thy faith in Christ, whom thou hast never before heard nor seen.
And many years pass away before he shall manifest himself in the flesh; wherefore, go to, thy faith hath made thee whole.”7The lesson that has blessed me is in these words: “Because of thy faith in Christ, whom thou hast never before heard nor seen.”Joseph had faith in Christ to go into the grove and also to pray for release from the powers of Satan.
He had not yet seen the Father and the Son, but he prayed in faith with all the energy of his heart.The experience of Enos has taught me the same precious lesson.
When I pray with faith, I have the Savior as my advocate with the Father and I can feel that my prayer reaches heaven.
Answers come.
Blessings are received.
There is peace and joy even in hard times.I remember when, as the newest member of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, I knelt in prayer with Elder David B. Haight.
He was about the age I am now, with challenges I now experience myself.
I remember his voice as he prayed.
I didn’t open my eyes to look, but it sounded to me as if he was smiling.
He spoke with Heavenly Father with joy in his voice.I can hear in my mind his happiness when he said, “In the name of Jesus Christ.” It sounded to me as if Elder Haight felt the Savior was affirming at that moment the message he had prayed to the Father.
And I was sure it would be received with a smile.Our ability to make our vital contribution to the wonderful continuing Restoration will increase as we grow in our faith in Jesus Christ as our Savior and our Heavenly Father as our loving Father.
As we pray in faith, we become a vital part in the Lord’s work as He prepares the world for His Second Coming.
I pray that we all may find joy in doing the work He invites each of us to perform.I testify that Jesus Christ lives.
This is His Church and kingdom on earth.
Joseph Smith is the prophet of the Restoration.
President Russell M. Nelson is the Lord’s prophet on the earth today.
He holds all the keys of the priesthood in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
Beginning in 1846, thousands of pioneer men, women, and children headed westward to Zion.
Their great faith stirred their boundless courage.
For some, that trip was never finished as they died along the way.
Others, facing great adversity, pressed forward in faith.Because of them, generations later, my family enjoyed the blessings of the true gospel of Jesus Christ.Much like another young man, whom I will mention later, I was 14 when I started to question religion and my faith.
I attended the church of another denomination close to my house, but I felt the desire to visit many different churches.One afternoon, I noticed two young men in dark suits and white shirts entering my neighbor’s home.
These young men looked—special.The next day I met my neighbor, Leonor Lopez, and asked her about those two men.
Leonor explained that they were missionaries for The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
She joyfully told me that her family was baptized into the Church a year earlier.
Seeing my interest, Leonor invited me to meet the missionaries and learn about the Church.Two days later, I joined the Lopez family to meet the missionaries.
They introduced themselves as Elder John Messerly from Ogden, Utah, and Elder Christopher Osorio from Walnut Creek, California.
I will never forget them.Since I was only 14, Elder Messerly insisted we go next door to my home so that my mother could know what they were teaching me.
There, he kindly explained that they came to share a message about Jesus Christ and asked for her permission to teach me.
Mother agreed and even joined us while they taught me.The missionaries first asked Leonor to offer a prayer.
This touched me very deeply because her prayer was not a repetition of memorized words but an expression from her heart.
I felt she was really talking to her Heavenly Father.The missionaries then taught us about Jesus Christ.
They showed a picture of Him that impressed me because it was a picture of the resurrected, living Christ.They continued, teaching us how Jesus established His Church in ancient times, with Him at the head joined by twelve Apostles.
They taught us about the Apostasy—how truth and Christ’s authority had been taken from the earth after His Apostles died.They told us of a young 14-year-old boy named Joseph Smith who, during the early 1800s, visited different churches searching for truth.
As time went on, Joseph became even more confused.
After reading in the Bible that we can “ask of God”1 for wisdom, Joseph, acting in faith, retired to a grove of trees to pray and ask which church he should join.One of the missionaries read Joseph’s account of what happened as he prayed:“I saw a pillar of light exactly over my head, above the brightness of the sun, which descended gradually until it fell upon me.“… When the light rested upon me I saw two Personages, whose brightness and glory defy all description, standing above me in the air.
One of them spake unto me, calling me by name and said, pointing to the other—This is My Beloved Son.
Hear Him!”2During that lesson, the Spirit confirmed to me several truths.First, God listens to all His children’s sincere prayers, and heaven is open to all—not just a few.Second, God the Father, Jesus Christ, and the Holy Ghost are three separate beings, united in Their purpose “to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man.”3Third, we are created in the image of God.
Our Heavenly Father and His Son, Jesus Christ, have bodies of flesh and bones like us, but They are glorified and perfected, and the Holy Ghost is a personage of spirit.4Fourth, through Joseph Smith, Jesus Christ restored His gospel and true Church to the earth.
The priesthood authority conferred on Christ’s Apostles 2,000 years ago is the same priesthood conferred upon Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery by Peter, James, and John.5Finally, we learned about another testament of Jesus Christ: the Book of Mormon.
Written by ancient prophets, it tells of the people who lived in the Americas before, during, and after the birth of Jesus.
From it we learn of how they knew, loved, and worshipped Christ, who appeared to them as the resurrected Savior.The Spirit moved me profoundly as I learned of the Savior’s declaration to them: “Behold, I am Jesus Christ, whom the prophets testified shall come into the world.”6The missionaries gave us our own copy of the Book of Mormon.
We read and accepted the invitation found at the end of the Book of Mormon, which reads:“And when ye shall receive these things, I would exhort you that ye would ask God, the Eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these things are not true; and if ye shall ask with a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ, he will manifest the truth of it unto you, by the power of the Holy Ghost.“And by the power of the Holy Ghost ye may know the truth of all things.”7It has been almost 45 years since my mother and I first learned the joy and power of having faith in Christ.
It was because of their faith in Christ that the Lopez family shared their new faith with me.
It was because of their faith in Christ that these two missionaries left their homes in the United States to find my mother and me.
It was the faith of all these dear friends that planted a mustard seed of faith in us that has since grown into a mighty tree of eternal blessings.During these blessed years, we have known, as President Russell M. Nelson declared: “Everything good in life—every potential blessing of eternal significance—begins with faith.
Allowing God to prevail in our lives begins with faith that He is willing to guide us.
True repentance begins with faith that Jesus Christ has the power to cleanse, heal, and strengthen us.”8I invite us all to continually increase our faith in Christ, who has changed the lives of my beloved mother and me and continues to change the lives of all who seek Him.
I know that Joseph Smith is the Prophet of the Restoration, that President Nelson is our prophet today, that Jesus is the living Christ and our Redeemer, and that Heavenly Father lives and answers all His children’s prayers.
I testify of these truths in the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.
Brothers and sisters, it is proposed that we sustain Russell Marion Nelson as prophet, seer, and revelator and President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; Dallin Harris Oaks as First Counselor in the First Presidency; and Henry Bennion Eyring as Second Counselor in the First Presidency.Those in favor may manifest it.Those opposed, if any, may manifest it.It is proposed that we sustain Dallin H. Oaks as President of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles and M. Russell Ballard as Acting President of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles.Those in favor, please signify.Any opposed may manifest it.It is proposed that we sustain the following as members of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles: M. Russell Ballard, Jeffrey R. Holland, Dieter F. Uchtdorf, David A. Bednar, Quentin L. Cook, D. Todd Christofferson, Neil L. Andersen, Ronald A. Rasband, Gary E. Stevenson, Dale G. Renlund, Gerrit W. Gong, and Ulisses Soares.Those in favor, please manifest it.Any opposed may so indicate.It is proposed that we sustain the counselors in the First Presidency and the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles as prophets, seers, and revelators.All in favor, please manifest it.Contrary, if there be any, by the same sign.It is proposed that we release with appreciation for their devoted service Elders Wilford W. Andersen, Kim B. Clark, Lawrence E. Corbridge, Claudio R. M. Costa, Bradley D. Foster, O. Vincent Haleck, Donald L. Hallstrom, Steven E. Snow, and Larry Y. Wilson as General Authority Seventies and grant them emeritus status.Those who wish to join with us in expressing gratitude to these Brethren and their families for their remarkable service, please so manifest.It is proposed that we release the following as Area Seventies: Julio C. Acosta, Blake R. Alder, Alain L. Allard, Omar A. Alvarez, Taiichi Aoba, Carlos F. Arredondo, Aley K. Auna Jr., Grant C. Bennett, Michael H. Bourne, Rómulo V. Cabrera, Wilson B. Calderón, Hernando Camargo, José C. F. Campos, Nicolás Castañeda, Walter Chatora, Zeno Chow, Robert J. Dudfield, J. Kevin Ence, Meliula M. Fata, K. Mark Frost, Claude R. Gamiette, Maurício G. Gonzaga, Leonard D. Greer, Jose L. Isaguirre, Tae Gul Jung, Sergio L. Krasnoselsky, Milan F. Kunz, Bryan R. Larsen, G. Kenneth Lee, Geraldo Lima, W. Jean-Pierre Lono, Khumbulani Mdletshe, Dale H. Munk, Norman R. Nemrow, Yutaka Onda, Wolfgang Pilz, Raimundo Pacheco De Pinho, Gennady N. Podvodov, Abraham E. Quero, Marco A. Rais, Steven K. Randall, Francisco J. Ruiz de Mendoza, Edwin A. Sexton, Raúl H. Spitale, C. Walter Treviño, ‘Aisake K. Tukuafu, Juan A. Urra, Raul S. Villanueva, and Leonard Woo.Those who wish to join us in expressing appreciation for their excellent service, please manifest it.It is proposed that we sustain the following as new Area Seventies: Michel J. Carter, Alfred Kyungu, R. Pepper Murray, Ryan K. Olsen, and Iotua Tune.Those in favor may manifest it.Those opposed, if any, may manifest it.It is proposed that we sustain the other General Authorities, Area Seventies, and General Officers of the Church as presently constituted.All in favor, please manifest it.Contrary, if there be any, by the same sign.Those who opposed any of the proposals should contact their stake president.Brothers and sisters, we are ever grateful for your continued faith and prayers in behalf of the leaders of the Church.
I will now present the General Authorities, Area Seventies, and General Auxiliary Presidencies of the Church for sustaining vote.It is proposed that we sustain Russell Marion Nelson as prophet, seer, and revelator and President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; Dallin Harris Oaks as First Counselor in the First Presidency; and Henry Bennion Eyring as Second Counselor in the First Presidency.Those in favor may manifest it.Those opposed, if any, may manifest it.It is proposed that we sustain Dallin H. Oaks as President of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles and M. Russell Ballard as Acting President of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles.Those in favor, please signify.Any opposed may manifest it.It is proposed that we sustain the following as members of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles: M. Russell Ballard, Jeffrey R. Holland, Dieter F. Uchtdorf, David A. Bednar, Quentin L. Cook, D. Todd Christofferson, Neil L. Andersen, Ronald A. Rasband, Gary E. Stevenson, Dale G. Renlund, Gerrit W. Gong, and Ulisses Soares.Those in favor, please manifest it.Any opposed may so indicate.It is proposed that we sustain the counselors in the First Presidency and the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles as prophets, seers, and revelators.All in favor, please manifest it.Contrary, if there be any, by the same sign.It is proposed that we release the following from their service as Area Seventies: Elders Victorino A. Babida, L. Todd Budge, Peter M. Johnson, John A. McCune, Mark L. Pace, James R. Rasband, and Benjamin M. Z. Tai.Those who wish to join us in expressing appreciation to these brethren for their dedicated service may do so with the uplifted hand.It is proposed that we release with heartfelt gratitude Brother Tad R. Callister, Devin G. Durrant, and Brian K. Ashton as the Sunday School General Presidency.All who wish to join us in expressing appreciation to these brethren for their remarkable service, please manifest it.It is proposed that we sustain the following as General Authority Seventies: Rubén V. Alliaud, Jorge M. Alvarado, Hans T. Boom, L. Todd Budge, Ricardo P. Giménez, Peter M. Johnson, John A. McCune, James R. Rasband, Benjamin M. Z. Tai, and Alan R. Walker.All in favor, please manifest it.Those opposed, by the same sign.It is proposed that we sustain the following as Area Seventies: Solomon I. Aliche, Guillermo A. Alvarez, Daren R. Barney, Julius F. Barrientos, James H. Bekker, Kevin G. Brown, Mark S. Bryce, A. Marcos Cabral, Dunstan G. B. T. Chadambuka, Alan C. K. Cheung, Christian C. Chigbundu, Paul N. Clayton, Karim Del Valle, Hiroyuki Domon, Mernard P. Donato, Mark D. Eddy, Zachary F. Evans, Henry J. Eyring, Sapele Fa’alogo Jr., David L. Frischknecht, John J. Gallego, Efraín R. García, Robert Gordon, Mark A. Gottfredson, Thomas Hänni, Michael J. Hess, Glenn M. Holmes, Richard S. Hutchins, Tito Ibañez, Akinori Ito, Jeremy R. Jaggi, Kelly R. Johnson, Christopher Hyunsu Kim, H. Moroni Klein, ’Inoke F. Kupu, Stephen Chee Kong Lai, Victor D. Lattaro, Tarmo Lepp, Itzcoatl Lozano, Kevin J. Lythgoe, Edgar P. Montes, S. Ephraim Msane, Luiz C. D. Queiroz, Ifanomezana Rasolondraibe, Eduardo D. Resek, Tomás G. Román, Ramon E. Sarmiento, Jonathan S. Schmitt, Vai Sikahema, Denelson Silva, Luis Spina, Carlos G. Süffert, Voi R. Taeoalii, Sergio R. Vargas, and Markus Zarse.All in favor, please manifest it.Those opposed, if any.It is proposed that we sustain Mark L. Pace to serve as Sunday School General President, with Milton da Rocha Camargo as First Counselor and Jan Eric Newman as Second Counselor.Those in favor may manifest it.Any opposed may so signify.It is proposed that we sustain the other General Authorities, Area Seventies, and General Auxiliary Presidencies as presently constituted.All in favor, please manifest it.Those opposed, if any.President Nelson, the voting has been noted.
We invite those who may have opposed any of the proposals to contact their stake presidents.Brothers and sisters, we thank you for your continued faith and prayers in behalf of the leaders of the Church.We now invite the new General Authority Seventies and the new Sunday School General Presidency to take their seats on the rostrum.
I earnestly pray for the assistance of the Holy Ghost for you and for me as we rejoice and worship together.In April of 1976, Elder Boyd K. Packer spoke specifically to the youth of the Church in general conference.
In his classic message entitled “Spiritual Crocodiles,” he described how during an assignment in Africa he observed well-camouflaged crocodiles waiting to prey on unsuspecting victims.
He then likened the crocodiles to Satan, who preys on unwary youth by camouflaging the deadly nature of sin.I was 23 years old when Elder Packer gave that talk, and Susan and I were anticipating the birth of our first child in just a few days.
We were impressed with the content of his message about avoiding sin and the masterful way he used the ordinary behavior of animals to teach an important spiritual lesson.Susan and I also have traveled to Africa on many assignments.
And we have had opportunities to see the magnificent animals that live on that continent.
Remembering the impact of Elder Packer’s talk in our lives, we have tried to observe and learn lessons from the behavior of African wildlife.I want to describe the characteristics and tactics of two cheetahs Susan and I watched hunting their prey and relate some of the things we observed to the daily living of the gospel of Jesus Christ.Cheetahs and TopisCheetahs are the fastest land animals on earth and reach running speeds as high as 75 mph (120 km/h).
These beautiful animals can accelerate from a standstill position to running as fast as 68 mph (109 km/h) in less than three seconds.
Cheetahs are predators that sneak up on their prey and sprint a short distance to chase and attack.Susan and I spent almost two hours watching two cheetahs stalking a large group of topis, Africa’s most common and widespread antelopes.
The tall, dry grass of the African savanna was golden brown and almost totally obscured the predators as they pursued a group of topis.
The cheetahs were separated from each other by approximately 100 yards (91 m) but worked in tandem.While one cheetah sat upright in the grass and did not move, the other cheetah crouched low to the ground and slowly crept closer to the unsuspecting topis.
Then the cheetah that had been sitting upright disappeared in the grass at exactly the same moment that the other cheetah sat upright.
This alternating pattern of one cheetah crouching low and creeping forward while the other cheetah sat upright in the grass continued for a long time.
The stealthy subtlety of the strategy was intended to distract and deceive the topis and thereby divert their attention away from the approaching danger.
Patiently and steadily, the two cheetahs worked as a team to secure their next meal.Positioned between the large group of topis and the approaching cheetahs were several older and stronger topis standing as sentinels on termite mounds.
The enhanced view of the grasslands from the small hills enabled these guardian topis to watch for signs of danger.Then suddenly, as the cheetahs appeared to be within striking distance, the entire group of topis turned and ran away.
I do not know if or how the sentinel topis communicated with the larger group, but somehow a warning was given, and all the topis moved to a place of safety.And what did the cheetahs do next?
Without any delay, the two cheetahs resumed their alternating pattern of one cheetah crouching low and creeping forward while the other cheetah sat upright in the grass.
The pattern of pursuit continued.
They did not stop.
They did not rest or take a break.
They were relentless in following their strategy of distraction and diversion.
Susan and I watched the cheetahs disappear in the distance, always moving closer and closer to the group of topis.That night Susan and I had a memorable conversation about what we had observed and learned.
We also discussed this experience with our children and grandchildren and identified many valuable lessons.
I now will describe three of those lessons.Lesson #1—Beware of Evil’s Beguiling DisguisesTo me, cheetahs are sleek, alluring, and captivating creatures.
A cheetah’s yellowish-tan to greyish-white coat with black spots acts as a beautiful disguise that makes these animals almost invisible as they stalk their prey in the African grasslands.In a similar way, spiritually dangerous ideas and actions frequently can appear to be attractive, desirable, or pleasurable.
Thus, in our contemporary world, each of us needs to be aware of beguiling bad that pretends to be good.
As Isaiah warned, “Woe unto them that call evil good, and good evil; that put darkness for light, and light for darkness; that put bitter for sweet, and sweet for bitter!”1In a paradoxical period when violating the sanctity of human life is heralded as a right and chaos is described as liberty, how blessed we are to live in this latter-day dispensation when restored gospel light can shine brightly in our lives and help us to discern the adversary’s dark deceptions and distractions.“For they that are wise and have received the truth, and have taken the Holy Spirit for their guide, and have not been deceived—verily I say unto you, they shall not be hewn down and cast into the fire, but shall abide the day.”2Lesson #2—Stay Awake and Be AlertFor a topi, a brief moment of carelessness or inattentiveness could invite a swift attack from a cheetah.
Likewise, spiritual complacency and casualness make us vulnerable to the advances of the adversary.
Spiritual thoughtlessness invites great danger into our lives.iStock.com/AngelikaNephi described how in the latter days Satan would attempt to pacify and lull the children of God into a false sense of “carnal security, that they will say: All is well in Zion; yea, Zion prospereth, all is well—and thus the devil cheateth their souls, and leadeth them away carefully down to hell.”3Constant vigilance is required to counteract complacency and casualness.
To be vigilant is the state or action of keeping careful watch for possible danger or difficulties.
And keeping watch denotes the act of staying awake to guard and protect.
Spiritually speaking, we need to stay awake and be alert to the promptings of the Holy Ghost and the signals that come from the Lord’s watchmen on the towers.4“Yea, and I also exhort you … that ye be watchful unto prayer continually, that ye may not be led away by the temptations of the devil, … for behold, he rewardeth you no good thing.”5Focusing our lives in and on the Savior and His gospel enables us to overcome the tendency of the natural man to be spiritually snoozy and lazy.
As we are blessed with eyes to see and ears to hear,6 the Holy Ghost can increase our capacity to look and listen when we may not typically think we need to look or listen or when we may not think anything can be seen or heard.“Watch, therefore, that ye may be ready.”7Lesson #3—Understand the Intent of the EnemyA cheetah is a predator that naturally preys on other animals.
All day, every day, a cheetah is a predator.Satan “is the enemy of righteousness and of those who seek to do the will of God.”8 All day, every day, his only intent and sole purpose are to make the sons and daughters of God miserable like unto himself.9The Father’s plan of happiness is designed to provide direction for His children, to help them experience enduring joy, and to bring them safely home to Him with resurrected, exalted bodies.
The devil labors to make the sons and daughters of God confused and unhappy and to hinder their eternal progression.
The adversary works relentlessly to attack the elements of the Father’s plan he hates the most.Satan does not have a body, and his eternal progress has been halted.
Just as water flowing in a riverbed is stopped by a dam, so the adversary’s eternal progress is thwarted because he does not have a physical body.
Because of his rebellion, Lucifer has denied himself all of the mortal blessings and experiences made possible through a tabernacle of flesh and bones.
One of the potent scriptural meanings of the word damned is illustrated in his inability to continue progressing and becoming like our Heavenly Father.Because a physical body is so central to the Father’s plan of happiness and our spiritual development, Lucifer seeks to frustrate our progression by tempting us to use our bodies improperly.
President Russell M. Nelson has taught that spiritual safety ultimately lies in “‘never taking the first enticing step toward going where you should not go and doing what you should not do.’ … As human beings we all have [physical] appetites necessary for our survival.
‘These appetites are absolutely essential for the perpetuation of life.
So, what does the adversary do?
… He attacks us through our appetites.
He tempts us to eat things we should not eat, to drink things we should not drink, and to love as we should not love!’”10One of the ultimate ironies of eternity is that the adversary, who is miserable precisely because he has no physical body, invites and entices us to share in his misery through the improper use of our bodies.
The very tool he does not have and cannot use is thus the primary target of his attempts to lure us to physical and spiritual destruction.Understanding the intent of an enemy is vital to effective preparation for possible attacks.11 Precisely because Captain Moroni knew the intention of the Lamanites, he was prepared to meet them at the time of their coming and was victorious.12 And that same principle and promise applies to each of us.“If ye are prepared, ye shall not fear.“And that ye might escape the power of the enemy.”13Invitation, Promise, and TestimonyJust as important lessons can be learned by observing the behavior of cheetahs and topis, so each of us should look for the lessons and warnings found in the simple events of everyday life.
As we seek for a mind and heart open to receive heavenly direction by the power of the Holy Ghost, then some of the greatest instructions that we can receive and many of the most powerful warnings that can safeguard us will originate in our own ordinary experiences.
Powerful parables are contained in both the scriptures and in our daily lives.I have highlighted only three of the many lessons that can be identified in the adventure Susan and I had in Africa.
I invite and encourage you to reflect on this episode with the cheetahs and the topis and identify additional lessons for you and your family.
Please remember always that your home is the true center of gospel learning and living.As you respond in faith to this invitation, inspired thoughts will come to your mind, spiritual feelings will swell in your heart, and you will recognize actions that should be undertaken or continued so that you can “take upon you [the] whole armor [of God], that ye may be able to withstand the evil day, having done all, that ye may be able to stand.”14I promise that the blessings of effective preparation and spiritual protection will flow into your life as you are watchful unto prayer vigilantly and continually.I testify that pressing forward on the covenant path provides spiritual safety and invites enduring joy into our lives.
And I witness that the risen and living Savior will sustain and strengthen us in times both good and bad.
Of these truths I testify in the sacred name of the Lord Jesus Christ, amen.
What a beautiful choir singing of the beautiful Savior.In 2015 the United Nations adopted what was called “The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.” It was described as “a shared blueprint for peace and prosperity for people and the planet, now and into the future.” The Agenda for Sustainable Development includes 17 goals to be achieved by the year 2030, such as no poverty, zero hunger, quality education, gender equality, clean water and sanitation, and decent work.1The concept of sustainable development is an interesting and important one.
Even more urgent, however, is the broader question of sustainable societies.
What are the fundamentals that sustain a flourishing society, one that promotes happiness, progress, peace, and well-being among its members?
We have scriptural record of at least two such thriving societies.
What can we learn from them?Anciently, the great patriarch and prophet Enoch preached righteousness and “built a city that was called the City of Holiness, even Zion.”2 It is reported that “the Lord called his people Zion, because they were of one heart and one mind, and dwelt in righteousness; and there was no poor among them.”3“And the Lord blessed the land, and they were blessed upon the mountains, and upon the high places, and did flourish.”4The first- and second-century peoples in the Western Hemisphere known as Nephites and Lamanites provide another outstanding example of a flourishing society.
Following the resurrected Savior’s remarkable ministry among them, “they did walk after the commandments which they had received from their Lord and their God, continuing in fasting and prayer, and in meeting together oft both to pray and to hear the word of the Lord.
…“And there were no envyings, nor strifes, nor tumults, nor whoredoms, nor lyings, nor murders, nor any manner of lasciviousness; and surely there could not be a happier people among all the people who had been created by the hand of God.”5The societies in these two examples were sustained by the blessings of heaven growing out of their exemplary devotion to the two great commandments: “Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind” and “Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself.”6 They were obedient to God in their personal lives, and they looked after one another’s physical and spiritual welfare.
In the words of the Doctrine and Covenants, these were societies with “every man seeking the interest of his neighbor, and doing all things with an eye single to the glory of God.”7Unfortunately, as Elder Quentin L. Cook noted this morning, the ideal society described in 4 Nephi of the Book of Mormon did not endure beyond its second century.
Sustainability is not guaranteed, and a thriving society can fail in time if it abandons the cardinal virtues that uphold its peace and prosperity.
In this case, yielding to the temptations of the devil, the people “began to be divided into classes; and they began to build up churches unto themselves to get gain, and began to deny the true church of Christ.”8“And it came to pass that when three hundred years had passed away, both the people of Nephi and the Lamanites had become exceedingly wicked one like unto another.”9By the end of another century, millions had died in internecine warfare, and their once harmonious nation had been reduced to warring tribes.Reflecting on this and other examples of once flourishing societies that later foundered, I think it safe to say that when people turn from a sense of accountability to God and begin to trust instead in the “arm of flesh,” disaster lurks.
Trusting in the arm of flesh is to ignore the divine Author of human rights and human dignity and to give highest priority to riches, power, and the praise of the world (while often mocking and persecuting those who follow a different standard).
Meanwhile, those in sustainable societies are seeking, as King Benjamin said, to “grow in the knowledge of the glory of him that created [them], or in the knowledge of that which is just and true.”10The institutions of family and religion have been crucial for endowing both individuals and communities with the virtues that sustain an enduring society.
These virtues, rooted in scripture, include integrity, responsibility and accountability, compassion, marriage and fidelity in marriage, respect for others and the property of others, service, and the necessity and dignity of work, among others.Editor-at-large Gerard Baker wrote a column earlier this year in the Wall Street Journal honoring his father, Frederick Baker, on the occasion of his father’s 100th birthday.
Baker speculated about the reasons for his father’s longevity but then added these thoughts:“While we may all want to know the secret to a long life, I often feel we’d be better off devoting more time to figuring out what makes a good life, whatever span we’re allotted.
Here, I’m confident I know my father’s secret.“He is from an era when life was defined primarily by duty, not by entitlement; by social responsibilities, not personal privileges.
The primary animating principle throughout his century has been a sense of obligation—to family, God, country.“In an era dominated by the detritus of broken families, my father was a devoted husband to his wife of 46 years, a dutiful father to six children.
He was never more present and vital than when my parents suffered the unthinkable tragedy of losing a child.
…“And in an era when religion is increasingly a curiosity, my father has lived as a true, faithful Catholic, with an unshakable belief in the promises of Christ.
Indeed, I sometimes think he has lived so long because he is better prepared than anyone I have ever met to die.“I have been a fortunate man—blessed by a good education, my own wonderful family, some worldly success I didn’t deserve.
But however proud and grateful I feel, it’s eclipsed by the pride and gratitude I have for the man who, without fuss or drama, without expectation of reward or even acknowledgment, has got on—for a century now—with the simple duties, obligations and, ultimately, joys of living a virtuous life.”11The perceived importance of religion and religious faith has declined in many nations in recent years.
A growing number of people consider that belief in and allegiance to God are not needed for moral uprightness in either individuals or societies in today’s world.12 I think we would all agree that those who profess no religious belief can be, and often are, good, moral people.
We would not agree, however, that this happens without divine influence.
I am referring to the Light of Christ.
The Savior declared, “I am the true light that lighteth every man that cometh into the world.”13 Whether aware of it or not, every man, woman, and child of every belief, place, and time is imbued with the Light of Christ and therefore possesses the sense of right and wrong we often call conscience.14Nevertheless, when secularization separates personal and civic virtue from a sense of accountability to God, it cuts the plant from its roots.
Reliance on culture and tradition alone will not be sufficient to sustain virtue in society.
When one has no higher god than himself and seeks no greater good than satisfying his own appetites and preferences, the effects will be manifest in due course.A society, for example, in which individual consent is the only constraint on sexual activity is a society in decay.
Adultery, promiscuity, out-of-wedlock births,15 and elective abortions are but some of the bitter fruits that grow out of the ongoing sexual revolution.
Follow-on consequences that work against sustainability of a healthy society include growing numbers of children raised in poverty and without the positive influence of fathers, sometimes through multiple generations; women bearing alone what should be shared responsibilities; and seriously deficient education as schools, like other institutions, are tasked to compensate for failure in the home.16 Added to these social pathologies are the incalculable instances of individual heartbreak and despair—mental and emotional destruction visited upon both the guilty and the innocent.Nephi proclaims:“Wo be unto him that hearkeneth unto the precepts of men, and denieth the power of God, and the gift of the Holy Ghost!
…“… Wo unto all those who tremble, and are angry because of the truth of God!”17In contrast, our joyous message to our children and to all humanity is that “the truth of God” points a better way, or as Paul said, “a more excellent way,”18 a way to personal happiness and community well-being now and to everlasting peace and joy hereafter.The truth of God refers to the core truths that underlie His plan of happiness for His children.
These truths are that God lives; that He is the Heavenly Father of our spirits; that as a manifestation of His love, He has given us commandments that lead to a fulness of joy with Him; that Jesus Christ is the Son of God and our Redeemer; that He suffered and died to atone for sins on condition of our repentance; that He rose from the dead, bringing to pass the Resurrection of all humankind; and that we will all stand before Him to be judged, that is, to account for our lives.19Nine years into what was called “the reign of the judges” in the Book of Mormon, the prophet Alma resigned his position as chief judge to give full time to his leadership of the Church.
His purpose was to address the pride, persecution, and greed that were growing among the people and particularly among members of the Church.20 As Elder Stephen D. Nadauld once observed, “[Alma’s] inspired decision was not to spend more time trying to make and enforce more rules to correct the behavior of his people, but to speak to them of the word of God, to teach the doctrine and have their understanding of the plan of redemption lead them to change their behavior.”21There is much we can do as neighbors and fellow citizens to contribute to the sustainability and success of the societies we live in, and surely our most fundamental and enduring service will be to teach and live by the truths inherent in God’s great plan of redemption.
As expressed in the words of the hymn:Faith of our fathers, we will loveBoth friend and foe in all our strife,And preach thee, too, as love knows how,By kindly words and virtuous life.22If enough of us and enough of our neighbors strive to make our decisions and guide our lives by the truth of God, the moral virtues needed in every society will abound.In His love, our Heavenly Father gave His Only Begotten Son, Jesus Christ, that we might have everlasting life.23“[Jesus Christ] doeth not anything save it be for the benefit of the world; for he loveth the world, even that he layeth down his own life that he may draw all men unto him.
Wherefore, he commandeth none that they shall not partake of his salvation.“Behold, doth he cry unto any, saying: Depart from me?
Behold, I say unto you, Nay; but he saith: Come unto me all ye ends of the earth, buy milk and honey, without money and without price.”24This we declare “in solemnity of heart, in the spirit of meekness,”25 and in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
Dear Brethren: Directed by revelation, as recorded in section 120 of the Doctrine and Covenants, the Council on the Disposition of the Tithes—composed of the First Presidency, the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, and the Presiding Bishopric—authorizes the expenditure of Church funds.
Church entities disburse funds in accordance with approved budgets, policies, and procedures.Church Auditing, which consists of credentialed professionals and is independent of all other Church departments, has responsibility to perform audits for the purpose of providing reasonable assurance regarding contributions received, expenditures made, and safeguarding of Church assets.Based upon audits performed, Church Auditing is of the opinion that, in all material respects, contributions received, expenditures made, and assets of the Church for the year 2018 have been recorded and administered in accordance with approved Church budgets, policies, and accounting practices.
The Church follows the practices taught to its members of living within a budget, avoiding debt, and saving against a time of need.Respectfully submitted,Church Auditing DepartmentKevin R. JergensenManaging Director
Dear Brethren: Directed by revelation, as recorded in section 120 of the Doctrine and Covenants, the Council on the Disposition of the Tithes—composed of the First Presidency, the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, and the Presiding Bishopric—authorizes the expenditure of Church funds.
Church entities disburse funds in accordance with approved budgets, policies, and procedures.Church Auditing, which consists of credentialed professionals and is independent of all other Church departments and entities, has responsibility to perform audits for the purpose of providing reasonable assurance regarding contributions received, expenditures made, and safeguarding of Church assets.Based upon audits performed, Church Auditing is of the opinion that, in all material respects, contributions received, expenditures made, and assets of the Church for the year 2020 have been recorded and administered in accordance with approved Church budgets, policies, and accounting practices.
The Church follows the practices taught to its members of living within a budget, avoiding debt, and saving against a time of need.Respectfully submitted,Church Auditing DepartmentJared B. LarsonManaging Director
When I visit converts in their homes, one of the questions I frequently like to ask them is how they and their families learned about the Church and how they came to be baptized.
It doesn’t matter if the person in that moment is an active member or hasn’t attended church for many years.
The answer is always the same: with a smile and their countenance glowing, they begin to tell the story of how they were found.
In fact, it seems that the story of conversion is always the story of how we are found.Jesus Christ Himself is the Lord of lost things.
He cares for lost things.
That is surely why He taught the three parables that we find in the 15th chapter of Luke: the parable of the lost sheep, the lost coin, and, finally, the prodigal son.
All these stories have a common denominator: It doesn’t matter why they were lost.
It doesn’t matter even if they were aware they were lost.
There reigns supreme a feeling of joy that exclaims, “Rejoice with me; for I have found [that] which was lost.”1 In the end, nothing is truly lost to Him.2Allow me to share this afternoon with you one of the most precious things to me—the story of how I myself was found.Just before I turned 15, I was invited by my uncle Manuel Bustos to spend some time with him and his family here in the United States.
This would be a great opportunity for me to learn some English.
My uncle had converted to the Church many years before, and he had a great missionary spirit.
That is probably why my mother, without my knowing, spoke with him and said she would agree to the invitation on one condition: that he did not try to convince me to become a member of his Church.
We were Catholics, and we had been for generations, and there was no reason to change.
My uncle was in complete agreement and kept his word to the point that he didn’t want to answer even simple questions about the Church.Of course, what my uncle and his sweet wife, Marjorie, could not avoid was being who they were.3I was assigned a room that contained a large library of books.
I could see that in this library there were roughly 200 copies of the Book of Mormon in different languages, 20 of them in Spanish.One day, out of curiosity, I took down a copy of the Book of Mormon in Spanish.It was one of those copies with a sky-blue soft cover, with the figure of the angel Moroni on the front.
When I opened it, on the first page there was written the following promise: “And when ye shall receive these things, I would exhort you that ye would ask God, the Eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these things are not true; and if ye shall ask with a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ, he will manifest the truth of it unto you, by the power of the Holy Ghost.”And then it added: “And by the power of the Holy Ghost ye may know the truth of all things.”4It is difficult to explain the impact that these scriptures had on my mind and heart.
To be honest, I was not looking for “the truth.” I was just a teenager, happy with his life, enjoying this new culture.Nevertheless, with that promise in mind, I secretly began reading the book.
As I read more, I understood that if I really wanted to get anything from this, I had better start to pray.
And we all know what happens when you decide not only to read but also to pray about the Book of Mormon.
Well, that is just what happened to me.
It was something so special and so unique—yes, just the same as what has happened to millions of others around the world.
I came to know by the power of the Holy Ghost that the Book of Mormon was true.I then went to my uncle to explain to him what had happened and that I was ready to be baptized.
My uncle could not contain his astonishment.
He got into his car, drove to the airport, and returned back with my plane ticket to fly back home, with a note addressed to my mother that simply stated, “I had nothing to do with this!”In a way he was right.
I had been found directly by the power of the Book of Mormon.There may be many who have been found through wonderful missionaries around the world, in every case through miraculous ways.
Or maybe they have been found through friends that God has deliberately placed in their path.
It might even be that they have been found by someone from this generation or through one of their ancestors.5 Whatever the case, in order to progress toward a true personal conversion, sooner rather than later, they all must experience and be found by the power of the truths contained in the Book of Mormon.
At the same time, they must personally decide to make a serious commitment to God that they will strive to keep His commandments.When I returned to Buenos Aires, my mother realized that I truly wanted to be baptized.
Since I had a somewhat rebellious spirit, instead of opposing me, she very wisely took my side.
And without even knowing it, she did my baptismal interview herself.
Indeed, I believe that her interview was even more in-depth than those that our missionaries conduct.
She told me, “If you want to be baptized, I will support you.
But first I’m going to ask you some questions, and I want you to think very hard and answer me honestly.
Do you commit to attend church absolutely every Sunday?”I told her, “Yes, of course I’m going to do that.”“Do you have any idea how long church is?”“Yes, I know,” I said.She replied, “Well, if you get baptized, I am going to make sure that you attend.” Then she asked me if I was truly willing to never drink alcohol or smoke.I answered, “Yes, of course I am going to comply with that as well.”To which she added, “If you get baptized, I am going to make sure that that is the case.” And she proceeded on in that way with almost every commandment.My uncle had called my mother to tell her not to worry, that I would get over this soon.
Four years later, when I received my call to serve in the Uruguay Montevideo Mission, my mother called my uncle to ask him exactly when I was going to get over all this.
The truth is that from the time I was baptized, my mother was a happier mother.I came to know that the Book of Mormon was crucial in the conversion process by experiencing firsthand the promise that “a man would get nearer to God by abiding by its precepts.”6Nephi explained the central purpose of the Book of Mormon in this way:“For we labor diligently to write, to persuade our children, and also our brethren, to believe in Christ, and to be reconciled to God.
…“And [so] we talk of Christ, we rejoice in Christ, we preach of Christ, [and] we prophesy of Christ, … that our children may know to what source they may look for a remission of their sins.”7The entire Book of Mormon is imbued with that same sacred purpose.For this reason, any reader who commits to a sincere study of it, with the spirit of prayer, will not only learn about Christ but will learn from Christ—especially if they make the decision to “try the virtue of the word”8 and not reject it prematurely due to prejudiced unbelief9 by what others have said about things that they have never read.President Russell M. Nelson reflected: “When I think of the Book of Mormon, I think of the word power.
The truths of the Book of Mormon have the power to heal, comfort, restore, succor, strengthen, console, and cheer our souls.”10My invitation this afternoon to each of us, regardless of how long we’ve been a member of the Church, is to allow the power of the truths of the Book of Mormon to find us and embrace us once again and day after day as we diligently seek for personal revelation.
It will do so if we allow it.I solemnly testify that the Book of Mormon contains the fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ and that the Holy Ghost will confirm the truth of it time after time to anyone who, with a sincere heart, seeks knowledge unto the salvation of their soul.11 In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
My brothers and sisters, it’s difficult for me to believe that it was 71 years ago, in 1948, that I was a missionary in England and 44 years ago that my wife, Barbara, and I took our family to Canada when I was the president of the Canada Toronto Mission.
While serving there in April 1976, I was called to the First Quorum of the Seventy, and unexpectedly in 1985, I was called to the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles.
Unlike my previous callings, which included future releases, my release from my calling to the Twelve is not the best option right now; however, I pray that day will come only after I have finished all the Lord has called me to do.In thinking about my last 43 years of service as a General Authority and the privilege I have had to minister to Heavenly Father’s children, I have come to realize more fully that He wants all of His children to find peace, joy, and happiness in their lives.The prophet Lehi taught, “Men [and women] are, that they might have joy.”1 There are many reasons why peace, joy, and happiness may elude us in this life, including poverty, war, natural disasters, and unexpected setbacks in employment, health, and family relationships.But even though we cannot control those external forces that impact our lives here on earth, as we strive to become faithful disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ, we can find peace, joy, and happiness despite the worldly troubles that swirl around us.One of my children once said, “Dad, I wonder if I will ever be able to make it.” I responded, “All Heavenly Father asks of us is to do the very best we can each day.” Brothers and sisters, do the best you can do day after day, and before you know it, you will come to realize that your Heavenly Father knows you and that He loves you.
And when you know that—really know it—your life will have real purpose and meaning and you will be filled with joy and peace.As the Light of the World, the Savior said, “Whosoever believeth on me should not abide in darkness.”2“Jesus Christ is the name which is given of the Father, and there is none other name given whereby [we] can be saved;“Wherefore, all men [and women] must take upon them the name which is given of the Father.”3The scriptures teach us that Satan desires to lead people into darkness.
His every effort is to shut out the light and truth of Jesus Christ and His gospel.
As Lehi taught his children, the devil “seeketh that all men might be miserable like unto himself.”4 If Heavenly Father’s “work and … glory” is “to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of [men and women],”5 Lucifer’s “work” is to bring to pass the misery and endless woe of God’s children.
Sin and transgression dim the Light of Christ in our lives.
That is why our quest is to bask in the Light of Christ, which brings peace, joy, and happiness.In the last 18 months, the Lord has inspired His prophet and the Apostles to implement a number of wonderful adjustments.
However, I worry that the spiritual purposes of these adjustments might become lost in the excitement about the changes themselves.Joseph F. Smith said: “The true, pure, simple gospel of Jesus Christ has been restored.
We are responsible for maintaining it upon the earth.”6 He added that the true, pure, and simple gospel is the “saving doctrines of Christ.”7In the Articles of Faith, the Prophet Joseph Smith taught that “through the Atonement of Christ, all mankind may be saved, by obedience to the laws and ordinances of the Gospel.”8The first principles of the gospel are faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, repentance, baptism, the gift of the Holy Ghost, and enduring to the end.
His brother Hyrum taught: “Preach them over [and over] again: you will find that day after day new ideas and additional light concerning them will be revealed to you.
You can enlarge upon them … to comprehend them clearly.
You will then be able to make them more plainly understood by those [you] teach.”9The best ways for us to see the spiritual purposes of the Church are to live the true, pure, and simple teachings of Christ and also to apply the Savior’s two great commandments: “Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart.
… Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself.”10Obedience to those two commandments provides a way to experience more peace and joy.
When we love and serve the Lord and love and serve our neighbors, we will naturally feel more happiness that comes to us in no better way.Loving God and loving our neighbors is the doctrinal foundation of ministering; home-centered, Church-supported learning; Sabbath-day spiritual worship; and the work of salvation on both sides of the veil supported in the Relief Societies and the elders quorums.
All of these things are based on the divine commandments to love God and to love our neighbors.
Can there be anything more basic, more fundamental, and more simple than that?Living the true, pure, and simple gospel plan will allow us more time to visit the widows, widowers, orphans, lonely, sick, and poor.
We will find peace, joy, and happiness in our life when serving the Lord and our neighbors.The Sabbath-day adjustments that emphasize home-centered, Church-supported gospel learning and studying are an opportunity to renew our spirit and our devotion to God within the walls of our homes.
What could possibly be more simple, basic, and profound?
Brothers and sisters, can you see that learning and teaching the gospel in our families is an important way to find joy and happiness in our lives?Speaking of the Sabbath, the Savior said, “For verily this is a day appointed unto you to rest from your labors, and to pay thy devotions unto the Most High.”11 He added, “That thy joy may be full … [through] rejoicing and prayer … ye [should] do these things with thanksgiving, with cheerful hearts and countenances … [and] with a glad heart and a cheerful countenance.”12Please note some of the key words in this revelation: joy, rejoicing, thanksgiving, cheerful hearts, glad heart, and a cheerful countenance.
It sounds to me like Sabbath-day observance should bring smiles to our faces.As we minister in a higher and holier way, please consider how essential it is that we greet everyone who comes to our Church meetings, especially new members and visitors.
We should all enjoy singing the hymns and listening carefully to the words of the sacrament prayers with an open heart and mind.Testimonies of faith in our fast and testimony meetings are led by a member of the bishopric, who shares a brief testimony focused on the plan of happiness and the true, pure, and simple gospel of Christ.
All others should follow that example.
We need to remember that there are other appropriate places to tell stories or share travel adventures.
As we keep our testimonies simple and focused on the gospel of Christ, He will provide spiritual renewal as we share our testimonies with one another.Effective ministering is best viewed through the focused lens of loving God and loving our neighbors.
Simply stated, we minister because we love our Heavenly Father and His children.
Our ministering efforts will be more successful if we keep our ministering simple.
The most joy comes from the simple things of life, so we need to be careful not to think that more needs to be added to any of the adjustments we have received to build faith and strong testimonies in the hearts of God’s children.Let’s not complicate things with additional meetings, expectations, or requirements.
Keep it simple.
It is in that simplicity that you will find the peace, joy, and happiness I have been talking about.For years the leadership purposes of the Church, as stated in Handbook 2, are outcomes that are clear and simple, from which I quote:“Leaders encourage every member to receive all essential priesthood ordinances, keep the associated covenants, and qualify for exaltation and eternal life.
…“Adults: Encourage each adult to be worthy to receive the ordinances of the temple.
Teach all adults to identify their ancestors and perform vicarious temple ordinances for them.“Youth: Help prepare each young man to receive the Melchizedek Priesthood, to receive the ordinances of the temple, and to be worthy to serve a full-time mission.
Help prepare each young woman to be worthy to make and keep sacred covenants and receive the ordinances of the temple.
Strengthen youth through participation in meaningful activities.“All Members: Help priesthood and auxiliary leaders, ward councils, ward and full-time missionaries, and members work cooperatively in a balanced effort to rescue individuals, strengthen families and Church units, increase priesthood activity, and gather Israel through conversion, retention, and activation.
Teach members to provide for themselves and their families and to assist the poor and needy in the Lord’s way.”13My service in the Church has blessed me with many remarkable and special spiritual experiences.
I am a witness that the Lord directs His Church to accomplish His purposes.
I have received divine guidance far beyond my capacity.
The joy of gospel living for me has been centered on the true, pure, and simple doctrine and gospel of Jesus Christ.I have served under the keys and directions of six prophets and Church Presidents, from Spencer W. Kimball to Russell M. Nelson.
I testify that each one of them was and is God’s chosen prophet.
They have taught us essential principles about the Church and the gospel and doctrine of Christ.
President Nelson is carrying the Lord’s work forward at a breathtaking pace.
I say “breathtaking” because he’s the only one of the Apostles who is older than me, and I am having a difficult time keeping up with him!
I am a witness that the priesthood keys and the mantle of a prophet of God are upon him.
President Nelson teaches the true, pure, and simple gospel of Jesus Christ.
I bear my testimony that Jesus is the Christ and this is His Church—of which I testify humbly in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
Shortly after I was called to serve as a General Authority Seventy, I had the opportunity to visit with President Russell M. Nelson for a few minutes.
It was an unplanned encounter in the cafeteria, and he was so kind to invite Elder S. Mark Palmer and me to sit and enjoy lunch with him.“What do we talk about during lunch with the prophet?” was the thought that came to my mind.
So I decided to ask President Nelson if he had any counsel or guidance for me since I was just starting my calling.
His answer was very simple and direct; he looked at me and said, “Elder Schmeil, you are called for what you can become.” I walked away from that experience pondering about what the Lord wants me to become.
As I thought about this, I realized that He wants me to become a better husband, father, and son and a better servant.
I then realized that all of this could be accomplished as I worked to become a better disciple of the Savior Jesus Christ.Last general conference, President Nelson said: “To do anything well requires effort.
Becoming a true disciple of Jesus Christ is no exception.”1 President Nelson is inviting us to work hard to become better disciples of Jesus Christ.
He told us that to become more like the Savior, we need to strengthen our faith by asking, acting, and studying, among other things.1.
AskHe said, “Ask your Heavenly Father, in the name of Jesus Christ, for help.”2 Asking through prayer is one of the keys to knowing how to become a better disciple of Jesus Christ.Toward the end of His ministry among the Nephites in the Americas, Jesus Christ ascended into heaven.
Later, His disciples gathered together, “united in mighty prayer and fasting.
And Jesus again showed himself unto them, for they were praying unto the Father in his name.”3 Why did Jesus show Himself again to His disciples?
Because they were praying; they were asking.Then He continued:“Now I go unto the Father.
And verily I say unto you, whatsoever things ye shall ask the Father in my name shall be given unto you.“Therefore, ask, and ye shall receive; knock, and it shall be opened unto you; for he that asketh, receiveth; and unto him that knocketh, it shall be opened.”4We need to ask in faith to know the will of the Lord and accept that the Lord knows what is better for us.2.
ActActing is another essential key to becoming a better disciple of Jesus Christ.
As we act, He will guide and direct us along the way.
I am sure that Nephi was seeking guidance from the Lord to know how to get the brass plates from Laban, yet he and his brothers tried twice without success.
But they were acting, and the Lord was directing them along the way.
Finally, Nephi was successful the third time.
He recalled, “I was led by the Spirit, not knowing beforehand the things which I should do.”5This is how the Lord works as we put forth effort and act, even when we do not have a clear understanding of what needs to be done.
The Lord told Nephi what to do: go and get the plates.
But He did not tell Nephi how to do it.
He left it to Nephi to figure out and seek the Lord’s help—and this is often how the Lord works in our lives.
As we act in faith, the Lord guides and directs us.3.
StudyIn 3 Nephi, the disciples mentioned to the Savior that there were disputations among the people regarding the name of the Church.
In response, the Savior taught an important principle when He asked, “Have they not read the scriptures?”6 Studying is then another essential key to becoming a better disciple of Jesus Christ.
Prayer and scripture study go hand in hand.
They work together for our benefit.
This is the process that the Lord has established.
“Feast upon the words of Christ; for behold, the words of Christ will tell you all things what ye should do.”7The Savior also taught that we should not only study the scriptures but also teach from them, as He demonstrated to the Nephites: “And now it came to pass that when Jesus had expounded all the scriptures in one, which they had written, he commanded them that they should teach the things which he had expounded unto them.”8This is one of the reasons why it was so important for Nephi to go back and get the brass plates: his family needed the scriptures not only to help them journey to the promised land but also to help them teach their children.
We too must seek guidance from the scriptures for our journey, and we must teach from them in our homes and Church callings.4.
Act to BecomeMany times answers to prayer will not come right away.
But we must have faith to continue, act in righteousness, and be persistent like Nephi when he was trying to get the brass plates.
The Lord will show us a little bit at a time; as we study the scriptures, the Lord will give us the answers or the necessary strength for us to get through one more day, one more week, and to try one more time.
Elder Richard G. Scott said: “Be thankful that sometimes God lets you struggle for a long time before that answer comes.
That causes your faith to increase and your character to grow.”9Through prayer and scripture study, the Lord has always given me the strength to act and endure one more day, one more week, and to try one more time.
Many times the answers did not come right away.
I have questions that have not been answered yet, but I keep asking and studying, and I am happy that the Lord continues to give me the strength to act as I wait for answers.Elder Scott also said, “As you walk to the boundary of your understanding into the twilight of uncertainty, exercising faith, you will be led to find solutions you would not obtain otherwise.”10To become a better follower of the Savior Jesus Christ is a lifelong journey, and we are all in different stages, moving at a different pace.
We must keep in mind that this is not a competition, and we are here to love and help each other.
We need to be acting in order to allow the Savior to work with us in our lives.Speaking to Sidney Rigdon, the Lord said the following: “I have looked upon thee and thy works.
I have heard thy prayers, and prepared thee for a greater work.”11 I testify that the Lord hears and answers our prayers; He knows us; He has a great work for each one of us.
Through prayer, scripture study, and action, we can unlock the blessings of heaven and become better followers of the Savior Jesus Christ.President Dallin H. Oaks taught that “the Final Judgment is not just an evaluation of a sum total of good and evil acts—what we have done.
It is an acknowledgment of the final effect of our acts and thoughts—what we have become.”12I am grateful for prophets, seers, and revelators; they are the watchmen on the tower.
They see things that we do not see.
I testify that through their words, we can become better followers of the Savior Jesus Christ and achieve our potential.
I testify that Christ lives and knows each one of us individually.
This is His Church.
In the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.
While meeting with the elders of the Church on one occasion, the Prophet Joseph Smith declared: “Take away the Book of Mormon, and the revelations, and where is our religion?
We have none.”1 My dear brothers and sisters, following the First Vision, the miraculous coming forth of the Book of Mormon is the second fundamental milestone of the unfolding Restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ in this dispensation.
The Book of Mormon testifies of God’s love for His children, of the Lord Jesus Christ’s selfless and divine atoning sacrifice, and of His crowning ministry among the Nephites soon after His Resurrection.2 It also testifies that the remnant of the house of Israel is to become one through His latter-day work and that they are not cast off forever.3As we study the coming forth of this holy book of scripture in these latter days, we come to realize that the entire undertaking was miraculous—from the Prophet Joseph receiving the gold plates from a holy angel to its translation “by the gift and power of God,”4 its preservation, and its publication by the hand of the Lord.The coming forth of the Book of Mormon began long before Joseph Smith received the gold plates from the hands of the angel Moroni.
Prophets of old prophesied about this sacred book’s advent in our day.5 Isaiah spoke of a sealed book, that when it would appear people would be contending over God’s word.
This circumstance would provide the context wherein God could perform His “marvellous work and a wonder,” causing “the wisdom of their wise men [to] perish, and the understanding of their prudent men [to] be hid,” while the meek would “increase their joy in the Lord, and the poor among men shall rejoice in the Holy One of Israel.”6 Ezekiel spoke about the stick of Judah (the Bible) and the stick of Ephraim (the Book of Mormon) being brought together as one.
Both Ezekiel (in the Old Testament) and Lehi (in the Book of Mormon) indicate that they shall “grow together” to confound false doctrine, establish peace, and bring us to a knowledge of the covenants.7In the evening of September 21, 1823, three and a half years after experiencing the First Vision, Joseph was visited three times by the angel Moroni, the last prophet of the Nephites in ancient America, as a result of his sincere prayers.
During their visits that lasted through the night, Moroni told Joseph that God had a marvelous work for him to accomplish—the translation and publication to the world of the inspired words of ancient prophets of the American continent.8 The next day, Joseph went to the place, not far from his home, where the plates were buried by Moroni at the end of his life, centuries earlier.
There Joseph saw Moroni again, who instructed him to prepare himself to receive the plates in the future.Over the next four years, on September 22 of each year, Joseph received additional instructions from Moroni regarding the knowledge about how the Lord’s kingdom should be governed in the latter days.
Joseph’s preparation also included visits from the angels of God, thus unfolding the majesty and glory of the events that would take place in this dispensation.9His marriage to Emma Hale in 1827 was part of that preparation.
She played an important role in helping the Prophet throughout his life and ministry.
In fact, in September 1827, Emma accompanied Joseph to the hill where the plates were hidden, and she waited for him as the angel Moroni delivered the record into Joseph’s hands.
Joseph received the promise that the plates would be preserved if he would devote all his efforts to keep them safe until they should be returned into the hands of Moroni.10My dear fellow companions in the gospel, many of today’s discoveries from ancient times occur during an archaeological excavation or even by accident during a construction project.
Joseph Smith, however, was directed to the plates by an angel.
That outcome by itself was a miracle.The translation process of the Book of Mormon was also a miracle.
This sacred ancient record was not “translated” in the traditional way that scholars would translate ancient texts by learning an ancient language.
We ought to look at the process more like a “revelation” with the aid of physical instruments provided by the Lord, as opposed to a “translation” by one with knowledge of languages.
Joseph Smith declared that through God’s power he “translated the Book of Mormon from [hieroglyphs], the knowledge of which was lost to the world, in which wonderful event [he] stood alone, an unlearned youth, to combat the worldly wisdom and multiplied ignorance of eighteen centuries, with a new revelation.”11 The Lord’s help in the translation of the plates—or revelation, so to speak—is also evident when considering the miraculously short time Joseph Smith took to translate them.12Joseph’s scribes testified of the power of God that was manifested while working on the translation of the Book of Mormon.
Oliver Cowdery once said: “These were days never to be forgotten—to sit under the sound of a voice dictated by the inspiration of heaven, awakened the utmost gratitude of this bosom!
Day after day I continued, uninterrupted, to write from his mouth, as he translated … ‘The Book of Mormon.’”13Historical sources reveal that from the moment Joseph obtained the plates in 1827, attempts were made to steal them from him.
He noted that “the most strenuous exertions were used to get [the plates] from [him]” and that “every stratagem that could be invented was resorted to for that purpose.”14 Eventually Joseph and Emma were forced to move from Manchester, New York, to Harmony, Pennsylvania, to find a safe place to proceed with the work of translation, away from mobs and individuals who wanted to steal the plates.15 As one historian notes: “Thus ended the first difficult phase of Joseph’s guardianship over the plates.
… Yet the record was safe, and in his struggles to preserve them Joseph no doubt had learned much about the ways of God and man that would serve him well in the time to come.”16While translating the Book of Mormon, Joseph learned that the Lord would choose witnesses to see the plates.17 This is part of what the Lord Himself established when He said, “In the mouth of two or three witnesses every word may be established.”18 Oliver Cowdery, David Whitmer, and Martin Harris, who were some of Joseph’s initial companions in the establishment of God’s marvelous work in this dispensation, were the first witnesses called to bear a special testimony of the Book of Mormon to the world.
They testified that an angel, who came from the presence of the Lord, showed them the ancient record and that they saw the characters engraved in the plates.
They also testified that they heard the voice of God from heaven declaring that the ancient record was translated by the gift and power of God.
Then they were commanded to testify of it to the entire world.19The Lord miraculously called another eight witnesses to see the gold plates for themselves and to be special witnesses of the truth and divinity of the Book of Mormon to the world.
They testified that they saw and carefully examined the plates and their engraved characters.
Even amid the adversities, persecutions, all kinds of difficulties, and even some of them later faltering in their faith, these eleven chosen Book of Mormon witnesses never denied their testimonies that they had seen the plates.
Joseph Smith was not alone anymore with the knowledge of Moroni’s visits and the gold plates.Lucy Mack Smith recorded that her son arrived home overcome with joy after the witnesses were shown the plates.
Joseph explained to his parents, “I feel as if I was relieved of a burden which was almost too heavy for me to bear, and it rejoices my soul, that I am not any longer to be entirely alone in the world.”20Joseph Smith faced much opposition in printing the Book of Mormon as its translation came to an end.
He was able to convince a printer named Egbert B. Grandin in Palmyra, New York, to print it only after Martin Harris, in an act of great faith and sacrifice, mortgaged his farm as collateral for the printing costs.
Due in part to the continuing opposition after the publication of the Book of Mormon, Martin Harris faithfully sold 151 acres (0.6 km2) of his farm to pay off the publication costs.
Through a revelation given to Joseph Smith, the Lord instructed Martin Harris to not covet his property and pay the printing cost for the book that “contains the truth and the word of God.”21 In March 1830 the first 5,000 copies of the Book of Mormon were published, and today more than 180 million copies have been printed in over a hundred languages.The historical facts and the special witnesses of the Book of Mormon testify that its coming forth was indeed miraculous.
Nevertheless, the power of this book is not based only in its magnificent history but on its powerful, unparalleled message that has changed countless lives—including mine!I read the entire Book of Mormon for the first time when I was a young seminary student.
As recommended by my teachers, I started reading it beginning with its introduction pages.
The promise contained in the first pages of the Book of Mormon still echoes in my mind: “Ponder in [your] hearts … , and then … ask God [in faith] … in the name of Christ if the book is true.
Those who pursue this course … will gain a testimony of its truth and divinity by the power of the Holy Ghost.”22With that promise in mind, earnestly seeking to know more about the truth of it, and in a spirit of prayer, I studied the Book of Mormon, little by little, as I completed the weekly assigned seminary lessons.
I remember, like it was yesterday, that a warm feeling gradually began swelling in my soul and filling my heart, enlightening my understanding, and becoming more and more delightful, as described by Alma in his preaching the word of God to his people.23 That feeling eventually turned into knowledge that took root in my heart and became the foundation of my testimony of the significant events and teachings found in this sacred book.Through these and other priceless personal experiences, the Book of Mormon indeed became the keystone that sustains my faith in Jesus Christ and my testimony of the doctrine of His gospel.
It became one of the pillars that testifies to me of Christ’s divine atoning sacrifice.
It became a shield throughout my life against the adversary’s attempts to weaken my faith and instill disbelief in my mind and gives me courage to boldly declare my testimony of the Savior to the world.My dear friends, my testimony of the Book of Mormon came line upon line24 as a miracle to my heart.
To this day, this testimony continues to grow as I continuously search, with a sincere heart, to more fully understand the word of God as contained in this extraordinary book of scripture.To all who hear my voice today, I invite you to be part of the marvelous coming forth of the Book of Mormon in your own life.
I promise you that as you prayerfully and consistently study its words, you can partake of its promises and rich blessings in your life.
I reaffirm once more the promise that echoes through its pages: that if you “ask God, the Eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these things are not true; and if ye shall ask with a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ,” He mercifully “will manifest the truth of it unto you, by the power of the Holy Ghost.”25 I can assure you that He will give you the answer in a very personal way, as He has done for me and many others around the world.
Your experience will be as glorious and sacred for you as Joseph Smith’s experiences were for him, as well as for the first witnesses and for all who have sought to receive a witness of the integrity and trustworthiness of this sacred book.I bear my witness that the Book of Mormon is indeed the word of God.
I testify that this sacred record “puts forth the doctrines of the gospel, outlines the plan of salvation, and tells men what they must do to gain peace in this life and eternal salvation in the life to come.”26 I testify that the Book of Mormon is God’s instrument to bring about the gathering of Israel in our day and to help people come to know His Son, Jesus Christ.
I testify that God lives and loves us and His Son, Jesus Christ, is the Savior of the world, the chief cornerstone of our religion.
I say these things in the sacred name of our Redeemer, our Master, and our Lord, even Jesus Christ, amen.
Thank you, Elder Soares, for your powerful and prophetic testimony of the Book of Mormon.
Recently, I had the unique opportunity to hold a page of the original manuscript of the Book of Mormon.
On this particular page, for the first time in this dispensation, these bold words of Nephi were recorded: “I will go and do the things which the Lord hath commanded, for I know that the Lord giveth no commandments unto the children of men, save he shall prepare a way for them that they may accomplish the thing which he commandeth them.”1As I held this page, I was filled with a profound appreciation for the efforts of the 23-year-old Joseph Smith, who translated the Book of Mormon by the “gift and power of God.”2 I also felt appreciation for the words of a young Nephi, who had been asked to perform a very difficult task in obtaining the plates of brass from Laban.Nephi knew that if he continued to stay focused on the Lord, he would be successful in fulfilling what the Lord commanded him.
He remained focused on the Savior throughout his life even though he suffered temptations, physical trials, and even the betrayal of some in his immediate family.Nephi knew in whom He could trust.3 Shortly after exclaiming, “O wretched man that I am!
Yea, my heart sorroweth because of my flesh,”4 Nephi stated, “My God hath been my support; he hath led me through mine afflictions in the wilderness; and he hath preserved me upon the waters of the great deep.”5As followers of Christ, we are not spared challenges and trials in our lives.
We are often required to do difficult things that, if attempted alone, would be overwhelming and maybe impossible.
As we accept the Savior’s invitation to “come unto me,”6 He will provide the support, comfort, and peace that are necessary, just as He did for Nephi and Joseph.
Even in our deepest trials, we can feel the warm embrace of His love as we trust Him and accept His will.
We can experience the joy reserved for His faithful disciples, for “Christ is joy.”7In 2014, while serving a full-time mission, our family experienced an unexpected turn of events.
When riding down a steep hill on a longboard, our youngest son fell and sustained a life-threatening injury to his brain.
As his situation deteriorated, medical personnel rushed him into emergency surgery.Our family knelt on the floor of an otherwise empty hospital room, and we poured our hearts out to God.
In the midst of this confusing and painful moment, we were filled with our Heavenly Father’s love and peace.We did not know what the future held or if we would see our son alive again.
We did know very clearly that his life was in God’s hands and the results, from an eternal perspective, would work out for his and our good.
Through the gift of the Spirit, we were fully prepared to accept any outcome.It was not easy!
The accident resulted in a two-month hospital stay while we were presiding over 400 full-time missionaries.
Our son experienced a significant loss of memory.
His recovery included long and difficult physical, speech, and occupational therapy sessions.
Challenges remain, but over time we have witnessed a miracle.We understand clearly that not every trial we face will have a result we wish for.
However, as we remain focused on Christ, we will feel peace and see God’s miracles, whatever they may be, in His time and in His way.There will be times when we will not be able to see any way that a current situation will end well and might even express, as Nephi, “My heart sorroweth because of my flesh.”8 There may be times that the only hope we have is in Jesus Christ.
What a blessing to have that hope and trust in Him.
Christ is the one who will always keep His promises.
His rest is assured for all who come unto Him.9Our leaders deeply desire all to feel the peace and comfort that come through trusting in and focusing on the Savior Jesus Christ.Our living prophet, President Russell M. Nelson, has been communicating the Lord’s vision for the world and for members of Christ’s Church: “Our message to the world is simple and sincere: we invite all of God’s children on both sides of the veil to come unto their Savior, receive the blessings of the holy temple, have enduring joy, and qualify for eternal life.”10This invitation to “come unto Christ” has specific implications for Latter-day Saints.11 As members of the Savior’s Church, we have made covenants with Him and have become His spiritually begotten sons and daughters.12 We have also been given the opportunity to labor with the Lord in inviting others to come unto Him.As we labor with Christ, our most deeply focused efforts should be within our own homes.
There will be times when family members and close friends will face challenges.
The voices of the world, and maybe their own desires, might cause them to question truth.
We should do everything we can to help them feel both the Savior’s love and our love.
I am reminded of the scripture verse that has become our beloved hymn “Love One Another,” which teaches us, “By this shall … men know … ye are my disciples, if ye have love one to another.”13In our love for those who are questioning truth, the enemy of all joy might try to make us feel that we betray those we love if we ourselves continue to live the fulness of the gospel and teach its truths.Our ability to help others come unto Christ or return to Christ will largely be determined by the example we set through our own personal commitment to stay on the covenant path.If our true desire is to rescue those we love, we ourselves must stay firmly with Christ by embracing His Church and the fulness of His gospel.In returning to Nephi’s story, we know that Nephi’s inclination to trust in the Lord was influenced by his parents’ propensity to trust in the Lord and by their covenant-keeping example.
This is beautifully exemplified in Lehi’s vision of the tree of life.
After partaking of the sweet and joyful fruit of the tree, Lehi “cast [his] eyes round about, that perhaps [he] might discover [his] family.”14 He saw Sariah, Sam, and Nephi standing “as if they knew not whither they should go.”15 Lehi then stated, “I beckoned unto them; and I also did say unto them with a loud voice that they should come unto me, and partake of the fruit.”16 Please note that Lehi did not leave the tree of life.
He stayed spiritually with the Lord and invited his family to come where he was to partake of the fruit.The adversary would entice some to leave the joy of the gospel by separating Christ’s teachings from His Church.
He would have us believe that we can stay firmly on the covenant path on our own, through our own spirituality, independent of His Church.In these latter days, Christ’s Church was restored in order to help Christ’s covenant children stay on His covenant path.In the Doctrine and Covenants we read, “Behold, this is my doctrine—whosoever repenteth and cometh unto me, the same is my church.”17Through Christ’s Church, we are strengthened through our experiences as a community of Saints.
We hear His voice through His prophets, seers, and revelators.
Most importantly, through His Church we are provided with all the essential blessings of Christ’s Atonement that can be realized only through participation in sacred ordinances.The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is Christ’s Church on the earth, restored in these latter days for the benefit of all of God’s children.I bear witness that as we come unto Christ and live as Latter-day Saints, we will be blessed with an added measure of His love, His joy, and His peace.
Like Nephi, we can do difficult things and help others do the same, because we know in whom we can trust.18 Christ is our light, our life, and our salvation.19 In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
Dear brothers and sisters, it is wonderful to be with you again in general conference.
Earlier this week, announcements were made to members of the Church about changes in policy regarding who may serve as witnesses to baptism and sealing ordinances.
I would like to highlight those three points.A proxy baptism for a deceased person may be witnessed by anyone holding a current temple recommend, including a limited-use recommend.Any endowed member with a current temple recommend may serve as a witness to sealing ordinances, living and proxy.Any baptized member of the Church may serve as a witness of the baptism of a living person.
This change pertains to all baptisms outside the temple.These policy adjustments are procedural.
The underlying doctrine and covenants are unchanged.
They are equally efficacious in all ordinances.
These changes should greatly enhance family participation in these ordinances.I also wanted to speak with you at this time to introduce adjustments that pertain to our youth and their leaders.You will remember that I have invited the youth of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints to enlist in the Lord’s youth battalion to participate in the greatest cause on earth today—the gathering of Israel.1 I issued this invitation to our youth because they are unusually gifted in reaching out to others and sharing what they believe in a convincing fashion.
The cause of the gathering is an essential part of helping to prepare the world and its people for the Second Coming of the Lord.In each ward, the Lord’s youth battalion is led by a bishop, a dedicated servant of God.
His first and foremost responsibility is to care for the young men and young women of his ward.
The bishop and his counselors direct the work of the Aaronic Priesthood quorums and the Young Women classes in the ward.The adjustments we will now announce are intended to help young men and young women develop their sacred personal potential.
We also want to strengthen Aaronic Priesthood quorums and Young Women classes and provide support to bishops and other adult leaders as they serve this rising generation.Elder Quentin L. Cook will now discuss the adjustments that relate to the young men.
And tonight, at the general women’s session, Sister Bonnie H. Cordon, Young Women General President, will discuss the adjustments that relate to the young women.The First Presidency and the Twelve are united in endorsing these efforts to strengthen our youth.
Oh, how we love them and pray for them!
They are the “hope of Israel, Zion’s army, children of the promised day.”2 We express our complete confidence in our youth and our gratitude for them.
In the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.
Even though our family has enjoyed rich blessings while joyfully walking the covenant path, we have also faced exceedingly high mountains.
I wish to share some very personal experiences regarding mental illness.
These include clinical depression, severe anxiety, bipolar disorder, ADHD—and sometimes a combination of them all.
I share these tender experiences with the approval of those involved.During my ministry, I have encountered hundreds of individuals and families with similar experiences.
Sometimes I wonder if the “desolating sickness” covering the land, as mentioned in the scriptures, might include mental illness.1 It is worldwide, covering every continent and culture, and affecting all—young, old, rich, and poor.
Members of the Church have not been excluded.At the same time, our doctrine teaches us to strive to become like Jesus Christ and be perfected in Him.
Our children sing, “I’m trying to be like Jesus.”2 We long to be perfect even as our Heavenly Father and Jesus Christ are perfect.3 Because mental illness can interfere with our perception of perfection, it remains all too often a taboo.
As a result, there is too much ignorance, too much silent suffering, and too much despair.
Many, feeling overwhelmed because they do not meet perceived standards, mistakenly believe they have no place in the Church.To combat such deception, it is important to remember that “the Savior loves each of His Father’s children.
He fully comprehends the pain and struggle that many experience as they live with a broad range of mental health challenges.
He suffered ‘pains and afflictions and temptations of every kind; … [taking] upon him the pains and the sicknesses of his people’ (Alma 7:11; emphasis added; see also Hebrews 4:15–16; 2 Nephi 9:21).
Because He understands all afflictions, He knows how ‘to heal the brokenhearted’ (Luke 4:18; see also Isaiah 49:13–16).”4 Challenges often indicate a need for additional tools and support and are not a character defect.Allow me to share several observations I made as our family has passed through trials.First, many people will mourn with us; they won’t judge us.
Due to severe panic attacks, anxiety, and depression, our son returned home from his mission after just four weeks.
As his parents, we found it difficult to deal with disappointment and sadness because we had prayed so much for his success.
Like all parents, we want our children to prosper and be happy.
A mission was to be an important milestone for our son.
We also wondered what other people might think.Unbeknownst to us, our son’s return was infinitely more devastating for him.
Note that he loved the Lord and wanted to serve, and yet he could not for reasons he struggled to understand.
He soon found himself at a point of total hopelessness, battling deep guilt.
He no longer felt accepted but spiritually numb.
He became consumed by recurring thoughts of death.While in this irrational state, our son believed that the only action left was to take his own life.
It took the Holy Ghost and a legion of angels on both sides of the veil to save him.While he was fighting for his life and during this immensely difficult time, our family, ward leaders, members, and friends went out of their way to support and minister to us.I have never felt such an outpouring of love.
I have never sensed more powerfully and in such a personal way what it means to comfort those in need of comfort.
Our family will be ever grateful for that outpouring.I cannot describe the countless miracles that accompanied these events.
Gratefully, our son survived, but it has taken a long time and much medical, therapeutic, and spiritual care for him to heal and to accept that he is loved, valued, and needed.I recognize that not all such incidents end like ours.
I sorrow with those who have lost loved ones far too early and are now left with feelings of grief as well as unanswered questions.My next observation is that it can be difficult for parents to identify their children’s struggles, but we must educate ourselves.
How can we know the difference between the difficulties associated with normal development and signs of illness?
As parents, we have the sacred charge to help our children navigate life’s challenges; however, few of us are mental health specialists.
We nevertheless need to care for our children by helping them learn to be content with their sincere efforts as they strive to meet appropriate expectations.
Each of us knows from our own personal shortcomings that spiritual growth is an ongoing process.We now understand that “there is not a simple cure-all for emotional and mental wellness.
We will experience stress and turmoil because we live in a fallen world with a fallen body.
Additionally, many contributing factors may lead to a diagnosis of mental illness.
Regardless of our mental and emotional well-being, focusing on growth is healthier than obsessing about our shortcomings.”5For my wife and me, the one thing that has always helped us was staying as close to the Lord as possible.
In hindsight, we now see how the Lord patiently tutored us through times of great uncertainty.
His light guided us step by step through the darkest hours.
The Lord helped us to see that the worth of an individual soul is far more important in the eternal scheme than any earthly task or achievement.Again, educating ourselves about mental illness prepares us to help ourselves and others who might be struggling.
Open and honest discussion with one another will help this important topic to receive the attention it deserves.
After all, information precedes inspiration and revelation.
These all-too-often invisible challenges can affect anyone, and when we are facing them, they appear insurmountable.One of the first things we need to learn is that we are certainly not alone.
I invite you to study the topic of mental health in the Life Help section of the Gospel Library app.
Learning will lead to more understanding, more acceptance, more compassion, more love.
It can lessen tragedy while helping us develop and manage healthy expectations and healthy interactions.My final observation: we need to constantly watch over each other.
We must love one another and be less judgmental—especially when our expectations are not immediately met.
We should help our children and youth feel the love of Jesus Christ in their lives, even when they struggle to personally feel love for themselves.
Elder Orson F. Whitney, who served as a member of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, counseled parents how to help struggling offspring: “Pray for your … children; hold on to them with your faith.”6I have often pondered what it means to hold on to them with faith.
I believe it includes simple acts of love, meekness, kindness, and respect.
It means allowing them to develop at their own pace and bearing testimony to help them feel our Savior’s love.
It requires us to think more about them and less about ourselves or others.
That usually means speaking less and listening much, much more.
We must love them, empower them, and praise them often in their efforts to succeed and be faithful to God.
And finally, we should do everything in our power to stay close to them—just as we stay close to God.For all who are personally affected by mental illness, hold fast to your covenants, even if you might not feel God’s love at this time.
Do whatever lies in your power and then “stand still … to see the salvation of God, and for his arm to be revealed.”7I testify that Jesus Christ is our Savior.
He knows us.
He loves us, and He will wait on us.
During our family’s trials, I have come to know just how close He is.
His promises are true:Fear not, I am with thee; oh, be not dismayed,For I am thy God and will still give thee aid.I’ll strengthen thee, help thee, and cause thee to stand, …Upheld by my righteous, omnipotent hand.Knowing how firm our foundation is, may we ever joyfully declare:The soul that on Jesus hath leaned for reposeI will not, I cannot, desert to his foes;That soul, though all hell should endeavor to shake, …I’ll never, no never, no never forsake!8In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
We rejoice in meeting together in this great general conference of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
It is a blessing to receive the mind and will of the Lord through the teachings of His prophets and apostles.
President Russell M. Nelson is the Lord’s living prophet.
How grateful we are for his inspired counsel and direction received today.I add my witness to those shared previously.
I bear testimony of God, our Eternal Father.
He lives and loves us and watches over us.
His plan of happiness provides the blessing of this mortal life and our eventual return to His presence.I also bear testimony of Jesus Christ.
He is God’s Only Begotten Son.
He saved us from death, and He redeems us from sin as we exercise faith in Him and repent.
His infinite atoning sacrifice in our behalf brings the blessings of immortality and eternal life.
Indeed, “God be thanked for the matchless gift of His divine son” (“The Living Christ: The Testimony of the Apostles,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2017, inside front cover).Latter-day Saints around the world are blessed to worship Jesus Christ in His temples.
One of those temples is currently under construction in Winnipeg, Canada.
My wife, Anne Marie, and I had the opportunity to visit the construction site in August of this year.
The temple is beautifully designed and will certainly be magnificent when completed.
However, you can’t have a magnificent temple in Winnipeg, or anywhere else, without a solid and firm foundation.The freeze-thaw cycle and expansive soil conditions in Winnipeg made it challenging to prepare the temple foundation.
Therefore, it was determined that the foundation for this temple would consist of 70 steel piles encased in concrete.
These piles are 60 feet (18 m) in length and 12 to 20 inches (30 to 50 cm) in diameter.
They were driven into the ground until they hit bedrock, approximately 50 feet (15 m) below the surface.
In this way, the 70 piles provide a solid, firm foundation for what will be the beautiful Winnipeg temple.As Latter-day Saints, we seek a similar firm and sure foundation in our lives—a spiritual foundation needed for our journey through mortality and back to our heavenly home.
That foundation is established on the bedrock of our conversion to the Lord Jesus Christ.We recall the teachings of Helaman from the Book of Mormon: “And now, my sons, remember, remember that it is upon the rock of our Redeemer, who is Christ, the Son of God, that ye must build your foundation; that when the devil shall send forth his mighty winds, yea, his shafts in the whirlwind, … it shall have no power over you to drag you down to the gulf of misery and endless wo, because of the rock upon which ye are built, which is a sure foundation, a foundation whereon if men build they cannot fall” (Helaman 5:12).Gratefully, we live in a time when prophets and apostles teach us of the Savior Jesus Christ.
Following their counsel helps us establish a firm foundation in Christ.A year ago, in his opening remarks of the October 2018 general conference, President Russell M. Nelson provided this declaration and warning: “The long-standing objective of the Church is to assist all members to increase their faith in our Lord Jesus Christ and in His Atonement, to assist them in making and keeping their covenants with God, and to strengthen and seal their families.
In this complex world today, this is not easy.
The adversary is increasing his attacks on faith and upon us and our families at an exponential rate.
To survive spiritually, we need counterstrategies and proactive plans” (“Opening Remarks,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2018, 7; emphasis added).Following President Nelson’s message, Elder Quentin L. Cook of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles introduced the Come, Follow Me resource for individuals and families.
His remarks included the following statements:“The new home-study Come, Follow Me resource … is designed to help members learn the gospel in the home.”“‘This resource is for every individual and family in the Church’ [Come, Follow Me—For Individuals and Families (2019), vi].”“Our purpose is to balance the Church and the home experiences in a way that will greatly increase faith and spirituality and deepen conversion to Heavenly Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.” (“Deep and Lasting Conversion to Heavenly Father and the Lord Jesus Christ,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2018, 9–10.
)Starting in January of this year, Latter-day Saints worldwide began studying the New Testament, with the Come, Follow Me resource as our guide.
With a weekly schedule, Come, Follow Me helps us study the scriptures, the doctrine of the gospel, and the teachings of the prophets and apostles.
It is a marvelous resource for us all.After nine months of this worldwide scripture study effort, what do we see?
We see Latter-day Saints everywhere growing in faith and devotion to the Lord Jesus Christ.
We see individuals and families setting aside time throughout the week to study the words of our Savior.
We see improving gospel instruction in our Sunday classes as we study the scriptures at home and share our insights at church.
We see greater family joy and unity as we have moved from simply reading the scriptures to studying the scriptures in a profound way.It has been my privilege to visit with many Latter-day Saints and hear firsthand of their experiences with Come, Follow Me.
Their expressions of faith fill my heart with joy.
Here are just a few of the comments I have heard from various members of the Church in different parts of the world:A father shared: “I enjoy Come, Follow Me, as it provides an opportunity to testify of the Savior to my children.”In another home, a child said: “This is a chance to hear my parents bear their testimonies.”A mother shared: “We have been inspired as to how to put God first.
The time we [thought we] ‘didn’t have’ has been [filled] with hope, joy, peace, and success in ways we didn’t know were possible.”A couple observed: “We are reading the scriptures entirely differently than we have ever read them before.
We are learning so much more than we have ever learned before.
The Lord is wanting us to see things differently.
The Lord is preparing us.”A mother remarked: “I love that we are learning the same things together.
Before, we were reading it.
Today, we are learning it.”A sister shared this insightful perspective: “Before, you had the lesson and the scriptures supplemented it.
Now, you have the scriptures and the lesson supplements it.”Another sister commented: “I feel a difference when I do it [compared to] when I don’t.
I find it is easier to talk to others about Jesus Christ and our beliefs.”A grandmother remarked: “I call my children and grandchildren on Sundays, and we share insights from Come, Follow Me together.”A sister observed: “Come, Follow Me feels like the Savior is personally ministering to me.
It is heaven inspired.”A father commented: “When we use Come, Follow Me, we are like the children of Israel, marking the side posts of our doors, protecting our families from the influence of the destroyer.”Brothers and sisters, it is a joy to visit with you and hear how your efforts with Come, Follow Me are blessing your lives.
Thank you for your devotion.Studying the scriptures with Come, Follow Me as a guide is strengthening our conversion to Jesus Christ and His gospel.
We are not simply trading one hour less in church on Sunday for one hour more of scripture study at home.
Learning the gospel is a consistent effort throughout the week.
As one sister insightfully shared, “The goal is not to make church one hour shorter; it is to make church six days longer!”Now, consider again the warning our prophet, President Nelson, gave as he opened the October 2018 general conference:“The adversary is increasing his attacks on faith and upon us and our families at an exponential rate.
To survive spiritually, we need counterstrategies and proactive plans” (Opening Remarks,” 7).Then (approximately 29 hours later) on Sunday afternoon, he closed the conference with this promise: “As you diligently work to remodel your home into a center of gospel learning, … the influence of the adversary in your life and in your home will decrease” (“Becoming Exemplary Latter-day Saints,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2018, 113).How can the attacks of the adversary be increasing exponentially while at the same time the influence of the adversary is actually decreasing?
It can happen, and it is happening throughout the Church, because the Lord prepares His people against the attacks of the adversary.
Come, Follow Me is the Lord’s counterstrategy and proactive plan.
As President Nelson taught, “The new home-centered, Church-supported integrated curriculum has the potential to unleash the power of families.” However, it does and will require our best efforts; we need to “[follow] through conscientiously and carefully to transform [our] home into a sanctuary of faith” (“Becoming Exemplary Latter-day Saints,” 113).After all, as President Nelson also said, “We are each responsible for our individual spiritual growth” (“Opening Remarks,” 8).With the Come, Follow Me resource, the Lord is preparing us “for the perilous times that we now face” (Quentin L. Cook, “Deep and Lasting Conversion,” 10).
He is helping us establish that “sure foundation, a foundation whereon if men build they cannot fall” (Helaman 5:12)—the foundation of a testimony anchored firmly in the bedrock of our conversion to the Lord Jesus Christ.May our daily efforts in studying the scriptures fortify us and prove us worthy of these promised blessings.
I so pray in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
Our son Dan got very sick on his mission in Africa and was taken to a medical facility with limited resources.
As we read his first letter to us after his illness, we expected that he would be discouraged, but instead he wrote, “Even as I lay in the emergency room, I felt peace.
I have never been so consistently and resiliently happy in my life.”As my wife and I read these words, we were overcome with emotion.
Consistently and resiliently happy.
We had never heard happiness described that way, but his words rang true.
We knew that the happiness he described was not simply pleasure or an elevated mood but a peace and joy that come when we surrender ourselves to God and put our trust in Him in all things.1 We too had had those times in our lives when God spoke peace to our souls and caused us to have hope in Christ even when life was hard and uncertain.2Lehi teaches that if Adam and Eve had not fallen, “they would have remained in a state of innocence, having no joy, for they knew no misery; …“But behold, all things have been done in the wisdom of him who knoweth all things.“Adam fell that men might be; and men are, that they might have joy.”3In a paradoxical way, afflictions and sorrow prepare us to experience joy if we will trust in the Lord and His plan for us.
This truth is beautifully expressed by a 13th-century poet: “Sorrow prepares you for joy.
It violently sweeps everything out of your house, so that new joy can find space to enter.
It shakes the yellow leaves from the bough of your heart, so that fresh, green leaves can grow in their place.
It pulls up the rotten roots, so that new roots hidden beneath have room to grow.
Whatever sorrow shakes from your heart, far better things will take their place.”4President Russell M. Nelson taught, “The joy the Savior offers [us] … is constant, assuring us that our ‘afflictions shall be but a small moment’ [Doctrine and Covenants 121:7] and be consecrated to our gain.”5 Our trials and afflictions can make space for greater joy.6The good news of the gospel is not the promise of a life free of sorrow and tribulation but a life full of purpose and meaning—a life where our sorrows and afflictions can be “swallowed up in the joy of Christ.”7 The Savior declared, “In the world ye shall have tribulation: but be of good cheer; I have overcome the world.”8 His gospel is a message of hope.
Sorrow coupled with hope in Jesus Christ holds the promise of enduring joy.The account of the Jaredites’ journey to the promised land can be used as a metaphor for our journey through mortality.
The Lord promised the brother of Jared and his people that He would “go before [them] into a land which is choice above all the lands of the earth.”9 He commanded them to build barges, and they obediently went to work building them according to the Lord’s instructions.
However, as the work progressed, the brother of Jared developed concerns that the Lord’s design for the barges was not sufficient.
He cried out:“O Lord, I have performed the work which thou hast commanded me, and I have made the barges according as thou hast directed me.“And behold, O Lord, in them there is no light.”10“O Lord, wilt thou suffer that we shall cross this great water in darkness?”11Have you ever poured out your soul to God in such a way?
When striving to live as the Lord commands and righteous expectations are not met, have you ever wondered if you must go through this life in darkness?12The brother of Jared then expressed an even greater concern about their ability to survive in the barges.
He cried, “And also we shall perish, for in them we cannot breathe, save it is the air which is in them.”13 Have the difficulties of life ever made it hard for you to breathe and caused you to wonder how you can make it through the day, let alone make it back to your heavenly home?After the Lord worked with the brother of Jared to resolve each of his concerns, He then explained, “Ye cannot cross this great deep save I prepare [a way for] you against the waves of the sea, and the winds which have gone forth, and the floods which shall come.”14The Lord made it clear that ultimately the Jaredites could not make it to the promised land without Him.
They were not in control, and the only way they could make it across the great deep was to put their trust in Him.
These experiences and tutoring from the Lord seemed to deepen the brother of Jared’s faith and strengthen his trust in the Lord.Notice how his prayers changed from questions and concerns to expressions of faith and trust:“I know, O Lord, that thou hast all power, and can do whatsoever thou wilt for the benefit of man; …“Behold, O Lord, thou canst do this.
We know that thou art able to show forth great power, which looks small unto the understanding of men.”15It is recorded that the Jaredites then “got aboard of their … barges, and set forth into the sea, commending themselves unto the Lord their God.”16 To commend means to entrust or to surrender.
The Jaredites did not get into the barges because they knew exactly how things would work on their journey.
They got aboard because they had learned to trust in the Lord’s power, goodness, and mercy, and they were therefore willing to surrender themselves and any doubts or fears they may have had to the Lord.Recently our grandson Abe was afraid to ride one of the carousel animals that move up and down.
He preferred one that didn’t move.
His grandmother finally persuaded him that it would be safe, so, trusting her, he got aboard.
He then said with a big smile, “I don’t feel safe, but I am safe.” Perhaps that is how the Jaredites felt.
Trusting God may not always feel safe at first, but joy follows.The journey was not easy for the Jaredites.
“They were many times buried in the depths of the sea, because of the mountain waves which broke upon them.”17 Yet it is recorded that “the wind did never cease to blow [them] towards the promised land.”18 As difficult as it is to understand, especially at the times in our lives when the headwinds are strong and the seas are turbulent, we can take comfort in knowing that God in His infinite goodness is always blowing us toward home.The record continues, “They were driven forth; and no monster of the sea could break them, neither whale that could mar them; and they did have light continually, whether it was above the water or under the water.”19 We live in a world where the monster waves of death, physical and mental illness, and trials and afflictions of every kind break upon us.
Yet, through faith in Jesus Christ and choosing to trust in Him, we too can have light continually, whether above the water or under the water.
We can have the assurance that God never does cease to blow us toward our heavenly home.While being tossed about in the barges, the Jaredites “did sing praises unto the Lord; … and [they] did thank and praise the Lord all the day long; and when the night came, they did not cease to praise the Lord.”20 They felt joy and thanksgiving even in the midst of their afflictions.
They had not yet arrived in the promised land, yet they were rejoicing in the promised blessing because of their consistent and resilient trust in Him.21The Jaredites were driven forth upon the water 344 days.22 Can you imagine that?
Trusting in the Lord includes trusting in His timing and requires patience and endurance that outlast the storms of life.23Ultimately, the Jaredites “did land upon the shore of the promised land.
And when they had set their feet upon the shores of the promised land they bowed themselves down upon the face of the land, and did humble themselves before the Lord, and did shed tears of joy before the Lord, because of the multitude of his tender mercies over them.”24If we are faithful in keeping our covenants, we too will one day arrive safely home and will bow before the Lord and shed tears of joy for the multitude of His tender mercies in our lives, including the sorrows that made space for more joy.25I testify that as we commend ourselves unto the Lord and consistently and resiliently trust in Jesus Christ and His divine purposes in our lives, He will visit us with assurances, speak peace to our souls, and cause us to “hope for our deliverance in him.”26I witness that Jesus is the Christ.
He is the source of all joy.27 His grace is sufficient, and He is mighty to save.28 He is the light, the life, and the hope of the world.29 He will not let us perish.30 In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
Earlier this morning, my wife’s brother gave her a note that she had written to her mother many years ago.
At the time, Sister Homer was just a little girl.
In part, her note read, “Dear Mother, I am sorry I did not bear my testimony today—but I love you.” As we went to lunch, I thought that was an interesting thing.
So I sat down, and I wrote a note that said, “Dear President Nelson, I am sorry I did not give my talk today—but I love you.” Somehow that did not feel right.
So here we are, and I am happy to add my words to those that have been spoken in this session today.Many years ago, I traveled on a small plane with a newly certified pilot at the controls.
At the end of our flight, we were cleared to land.
But as we neared the ground, I heard an alarm in the cockpit warn the pilot to “pull up.” The pilot looked to the more experienced copilot, who pointed in a downward direction, away from the runway, and said, “Now!”Our plane rapidly moved to the left and down, then climbed back to an appropriate altitude, reentered the landing pattern, and arrived safely at our destination.
We later learned that another aircraft had been cleared for takeoff.
Had we followed the instructions of the alarm, we would have veered into, rather than away from, the oncoming plane.
This experience taught me two important lessons: First, at critical moments in our lives, we will hear multiple voices competing for our attention.
And second, it is vital that we listen to the right ones.Competing VoicesWe live in a world with many voices seeking our attention.
With all the breaking news, tweets, blogs, podcasts, and compelling advice from Alexa, Siri, and others, we can find it difficult to know which voices to trust.
Sometimes we crowdsource guidance in our lives, thinking the majority will provide the best source of truth.
Other times we “halt … between two opinions,”1 choosing to be “neither cold nor hot.”2 Still other times we follow what is convenient, focus on a single voice or issue to guide us, or rely exclusively upon our own ability to think.While each of these approaches can be helpful, experience teaches that they are not always reliable.
What is popular is not always what is best.
Halting between two opinions brings no direction.
Convenience rarely leads to things that matter.
Fixation on a single voice or issue can impair our ability to see.
And relying solely upon our own thinking can lead us into a hyperintellectual stupor of thought.
If we are not careful, the wrong voices can draw us away from the gospel center to places where faith is difficult to sustain, and we find little more than emptiness, bitterness, and dissatisfaction.Listening to the Wrong VoiceLet me demonstrate what I mean by using an analogy and a scriptural example.
Mountain climbers commonly refer to altitudes above 8,000 meters as the “death zone” because at those heights there is not enough oxygen to sustain life.
There is a spiritual equivalent to the death zone.
If we spend too much time in faithless places, seemingly well-intended voices deprive us of the spiritual oxygen we need.In the Book of Mormon, we read of Korihor, who had such an experience.
He enjoyed great popularity because his teachings were “pleasing [to] the carnal mind.”3 He said that parents and prophets teach foolish traditions designed to limit freedom and perpetuate ignorance.4 He argued that people should be free to do whatever they choose because commandments are nothing more than conveniently contrived restrictions.5 To him, belief in the Atonement of Jesus Christ was “the effect of a frenzied mind,” created by belief in a being who could not exist because He could not be seen.6Korihor created so much unrest that he was brought before the chief judge and the high priest.
There, he rose “up in great swelling words,” criticizing the leaders and demanding a sign.
A sign was given.
He was struck so that he could not speak.
Korihor then realized he had been deceived, and thinking of precious truths he had abandoned, he lamented, “I always knew.”7Korihor then begged for food until he was trampled to death by a group of Zoramites.8 The final verse in his story contains this sober reflection: “And thus we see that the devil will not support his children at the last day, but doth speedily drag them down to hell.”9The Right VoiceBecause our Heavenly Father wants better for us, He makes it possible for us to hear His voice.
Most often, we hear Him through impressions given by the Holy Ghost.
The Holy Ghost is the third member of the Godhead.
He witnesses of the Father and the Son,10 was sent to “teach [us] all things,”11 and will “show unto [us] all things what [we] should do.”12The Spirit speaks to different people in different ways, and He may speak to the same person in different ways at different times.
As a result, learning the many ways He speaks to us is a lifelong quest.
Sometimes, He speaks to our “mind and in [our] heart”13 in a voice that is small yet powerful, piercing “them that … hear to the center.”14 Other times His impressions “occupy [our] mind[s]” or “press … upon [our] feelings.”15 Other times our bosom will “burn within [us].”16 Still other times He fills our souls with joy, enlightens our minds,17 or speaks peace to our troubled hearts.18Finding His VoiceWe will find our Father’s voice in many places.
We will find it when we pray, study the scriptures, attend church, engage in faithful discussions, or go to the temple.
Surely, we will find it in conference this very weekend.Today we sustained 15 men as prophets, seers, and revelators.
Their spirituality and experience give them a unique perspective that we desperately need.
Their messages are easy to find and spoken with absolute clarity.
They tell us what God wants us to know, whether it is popular or not.19Seeking His voice in any one of these places is good, but seeking it in many of them is even better.
And when we hear it, we need to follow the direction that is given.
The Apostle James said, “Be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only.”20 And President Thomas S. Monson once taught: “We watch.
We wait.
We listen for that still, small voice.
When it speaks, wise men and women obey.”21When Direction Is Slow to ComeEarly in my professional life, Sister Homer and I were asked to accept a change in job assignment.
At the time, it seemed to us a huge decision.
We studied, we fasted, and we prayed, but an answer was slow to come.
Eventually, we made a decision and pressed forward.
As we did, we felt settled and soon learned that it was one of the best decisions we had ever made.As a result, we have learned that answers are sometimes slow to come.
This can be because it is not the right time, because an answer is not needed, or because God trusts us to make the decision ourselves.
Elder Richard G. Scott once taught that we should be grateful for such times and made this promise: “When you are living worthily and your choice is consistent with the Savior’s teachings and you need to act, proceed with trust.
… God will not let you proceed too far without a warning impression if you have made the wrong decision.”22We Must ChooseAnd so, we need to decide which among all the different voices we will obey.
Will we follow the unreliable voices advocated by the world, or will we do the work required to allow our Father’s voice to guide us in our decisions and protect us from danger?
The more diligently we seek His voice, the easier it becomes to hear.
It is not that His voice gets louder but that our ability to hear it has increased.
The Savior has promised that if we “hearken unto [His] precepts, and lend an ear unto [His] counsel,” He “will give [us] more.”23 I testify that this promise is true—for each of us.Nearly a year ago, we lost my older brother in a tragic automobile accident.
John’s early years were full of promise and accomplishment.
But as he grew older, a broken body and uncooperative mind made life very difficult.
While the healing he hoped for didn’t come in this life, John nonetheless held to his faith, determined to endure, as best he could, to the end.Now, I know that John was not perfect, but I have wondered what it was that gave him such endurance.
Many voices invited him into the cynical fringe, but he chose not to go.
Instead, he did his best to anchor his life at the gospel center.
He lived his life there because he knew he would find the voice of his Master there; he lived his life there because he knew it was there that he would be taught.ConclusionBrothers and sisters, in a world with so many competing voices, I testify that our Heavenly Father has made it possible for us to hear and follow His.
If we are diligent, He and His Son will give us the direction we seek, the strength we need, and the happiness we all desire.
In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
When I was a child, Frank Talley, a member of the Church, offered to help my family fly from Puerto Rico to Salt Lake City so we could be sealed in the temple, but soon obstacles began to appear.
One of my sisters, Marivid, became ill. Unsettled, my parents prayed about what to do and still felt prompted to make the journey.
They trusted that as they faithfully followed the Lord’s prompting, our family would be watched over and blessed—and we were.No matter the obstacles we face in life, we can trust that Jesus Christ will prepare a way forward as we walk with faith.
God has promised that all who live according to the covenants they have made with Him will, in His time, receive all His promised blessings.
Elder Jeffrey R. Holland taught, “Some blessings come soon, some come late, and some don’t come until heaven; but for those who embrace the gospel of Jesus Christ, they come.”1Moroni taught that “faith is things which are hoped for and not seen; wherefore, dispute not because ye see not, for ye receive no witness until after the trial of your faith.”2Our question is, What should we do to best meet the trials that come our way?In his first public remarks as President of the Church, President Russell M. Nelson taught: “As a new Presidency, we want to begin with the end in mind.
For this reason, we’re speaking to you today from a temple.
The end for which each of us strives is to be endowed with power in a house of the Lord, sealed as families, faithful to covenants made in a temple that qualify us for the greatest gift of God—that of eternal life.
The ordinances of the temple and the covenants you make there are key to strengthening your life, your marriage and family, and your ability to resist the attacks of the adversary.
Your worship in the temple and your service there for your ancestors will bless you with increased personal revelation and peace and will fortify your commitment to stay on the covenant path.”3As we follow God’s voice and His covenant path, He will strengthen us in our trials.My family’s trip to the temple years ago was difficult, but as we approached the temple in Salt Lake City, Utah, my mother, full of joy and faith, said, “We are going to be OK; the Lord will protect us.” We were sealed as a family, and my sister recovered.
This happened only after the trial of my parents’ faith and in following the Lord’s promptings.This example of my parents still influences our lives today.
Their example taught us the why of gospel doctrine and helped us understand the meaning, purpose, and blessings that the gospel brings.
Understanding the why of the gospel of Jesus Christ can also help us face our trials with faith.Ultimately, everything God invites and commands us to do is an expression of His love for us and His desire to give us the blessings reserved for the faithful.
We cannot assume that our children will learn to love the gospel on their own; it is our responsibility to teach them.
As we help our children learn how to use their agency wisely, our example can inspire them to make their own righteous choices.
Their faithful living will in turn help their children to know the truth of the gospel for themselves.Young men and young women, hear the prophet today talking to you.
Seek to learn divine truths and seek to understand the gospel for yourselves.
President Nelson recently counseled: “What wisdom do you lack?
… Follow the example of the Prophet Joseph.
Find a quiet place.
… Humble yourself before God.
Pour out your heart to your Heavenly Father.
Turn to Him for answers.”4 As you seek guidance from your loving Heavenly Father, listening to the counsel of living prophets and watching the example of righteous parents, you too can become a strong link of faith in your family.To parents with children who have left the covenant path, gently go back.
Help them comprehend the gospel’s truths.
Start now; it is never too late.Our example of righteous living can make a great difference.
President Nelson has said: “As Latter-day Saints, we have become accustomed to thinking of ‘church’ as something that happens in our meetinghouses, supported by what happens at home.
We need an adjustment to this pattern.
It is time for a home-centered Church, supported by what takes place inside our branch, ward, and stake buildings.”5The scriptures teach, “Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it.”6They also say, “And now, as the preaching of the word had a great tendency to lead the people to do that which was just—yea, it had had more powerful effect upon the minds of the people than the sword, or anything else, which had happened unto them—therefore Alma thought it was expedient that they should try the virtue of the word of God.”7A story is told of a woman who was upset that her son was eating too much candy.
No matter how much she told him to stop, he continued to satisfy his sweet tooth.
Totally frustrated, she decided to take her son to see a wise man whom he respected.She approached him and said, “Sir, my son eats too much candy.
Would you please tell him to stop eating it?”He listened carefully then said to her son, “Go home and come back in two weeks.”She took her son and went home, perplexed why he had not asked the boy to stop eating so much candy.Two weeks later they returned.
The wise man looked directly at the boy and said, “Boy, you should stop eating so much candy.
It is not good for your health.”The boy nodded and promised he would.The boy’s mother asked, “Why didn’t you tell him that two weeks ago?”The wise man smiled.
“Two weeks ago I was still eating too much candy myself.”This man lived with such integrity that he knew his advice would carry power only if he was following his own counsel.The influence we have on our children is more powerful as they see us walking faithfully on the covenant path.
The Book of Mormon prophet Jacob is an example of such righteousness.
His son Enos wrote of the impact of his father’s teachings:“I, Enos, knowing my father that he was a just man—for he taught me in his language, and also in the nurture and admonition of the Lord—and blessed be the name of my God for it.
…“… And the words which I had often heard my father speak concerning eternal life, and the joy of the saints, sunk deep into my heart.”8The mothers of the stripling warriors lived the gospel, and their children were filled with conviction.
Their leader reported:“They had been taught by their mothers, that if they did not doubt, God would deliver them.“And they rehearsed unto me the words of their mothers, saying: We do not doubt our mothers knew it.”9Enos and the stripling warriors were strengthened by the faith of their parents, which helped them meet their own trials of faith.We are blessed with the restored gospel of Jesus Christ in our days, which lifts us when we feel discouraged or troubled.
We are reassured that our efforts will bear fruit in the Lord’s own due time if we press forward through the trials of our faith.My wife and I, with the Area Presidency, recently accompanied Elder David A. Bednar to the dedication of the Port-au-Prince Haiti Temple.
Our son Jorge, who came with us, said about his experience: “Amazing, Papa!
As soon as Elder Bednar started with the dedicatory prayer, I could feel the room fill with warmth and light.
The prayer added so much to my understanding of the purpose of a temple.
It really is the house of the Lord.”In the Book of Mormon, Nephi teaches that as we desire to know the will of God, He will strengthen us.
He wrote, “I, Nephi, being exceedingly young … and also having great desires to know of the mysteries of God, wherefore, I did cry unto the Lord; and behold he did visit me, and did soften my heart that I did believe all the words which had been spoken by my father; wherefore, I did not rebel against him like unto my brothers.”10Brothers and sisters, let us help our children and all around us to follow God’s covenant path so that the Spirit might teach them and soften their hearts to desire to follow Him throughout their life.As I consider the example of my parents, I realize that our faith in the Lord Jesus Christ will show us the way back to our heavenly home.
I know miracles come after the trial of our faith.I bear testimony of Jesus Christ and His atoning sacrifice.
I know He is our Savior and Deliverer.
He and our Heavenly Father came that morning in the spring of 1820 to young Joseph Smith, the prophet of the Restoration.
President Russell M. Nelson is the prophet of our day.
In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
Brothers and sisters, at this Easter time we focus on the glorious Resurrection of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ.
We remember His loving invitation to “come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.“Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls.“For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light.”1The Savior’s invitation to come unto Him is an invitation to all not only to come unto Him but also to belong to His Church.In the verse preceding this loving invitation, Jesus teaches how this is done by seeking to follow Him.
He declared, “No man [or woman] knoweth the Son, but the Father; neither knoweth any man [or woman] the Father, save the Son, and he [or she] to whomsoever the Son will reveal him.”2Jesus wants us to know God is a loving Heavenly Father.Knowing that we are loved by our Heavenly Father will help us know who we are and know that we belong to His great eternal family.The Mayo Clinic recently noted: “Having a sense of belonging is so important.
… Nearly every aspect of our lives is organized around belonging to something.” This report adds, “We cannot separate the importance of a sense of belonging from our physical and mental health”3—and, I would add, our spiritual health.On the evening before His suffering in Gethsemane and death on the cross, the Savior met with His disciples for the Last Supper.
He said to them, “In the world ye shall have tribulation: but be of good cheer; I have overcome the world.”4 Before sunset the following day, Jesus Christ had suffered and had “died [on the cross] for our sins.”5I wonder how lonely the faithful women and men who followed Him must have felt in Jerusalem as the sun set and darkness and fear encompassed them.6Like these ancient disciples nearly 2,000 years ago, many of you may also feel lonely from time to time.
I have experienced this loneliness since the death of my precious wife, Barbara, over two and a half years ago.
I know what it is to be surrounded by family members, friends, and associates but still feel lonely—because the love of my life is no longer here beside me.The COVID-19 pandemic has highlighted this sense of isolation and loneliness for many.
Nevertheless, despite the challenges we face in life, we can, like on that first Easter morning, awake to a new life in Christ, with new and marvelous possibilities and new realities as we turn to the Lord for hope and belonging.I personally feel the pain of those who lack a sense of belonging.
As I watch news from around the world, I see many who seem to be experiencing this loneliness.
I think that, for many, it is because they may not know that they are loved by Heavenly Father and that we all belong to His eternal family.
Believing that God loves us and that we are His children is comforting and assuring.Because we are the spirit children of God, everyone has a divine origin, nature, and potential.
Each of us “is a beloved spirit son or daughter of heavenly parents.”7 This is our identity!
This is who we really are!Our spiritual identity is enhanced as we understand our many mortal identities, including ethnic, cultural, or national heritage.This sense of spiritual and cultural identity, love, and belonging can inspire hope and love for Jesus Christ.I speak of hope in Christ not as wishful thinking.
Instead, I speak of hope as an expectation that will be realized.
Such hope is essential to overcoming adversity, fostering spiritual resilience and strength, and coming to know that we are loved by our Eternal Father and that we are His children, who belong to His family.When we have hope in Christ, we come to know that as we need to make and keep sacred covenants, our fondest desires and dreams can be fulfilled through Him.The Quorum of the Twelve Apostles have counseled together in a spirit of prayer and with a yearning to understand how to help all who feel alone or feel they don’t belong.
We long to help all who feel this way.
Let me mention, in particular, those who are currently single.Brothers and sisters, more than half of adults in the Church today are widowed, divorced, or not yet married.
Some wonder about their opportunities and place in God’s plan and in the Church.
We should understand that eternal life is not simply a question of current marital status but of discipleship and being “valiant in the testimony of Jesus.”8 The hope of all who are single is the same as for all members of the Lord’s restored Church—access to the grace of Christ through “obedience to the laws and ordinances of the Gospel.”9May I suggest that there are some important principles we need to understand.First, scriptures and latter-day prophets confirm that everyone who is faithful in keeping gospel covenants will have the opportunity for exaltation.
President Russell M. Nelson taught: “In the Lord’s own way and time, no blessing will be withheld from His faithful Saints.
The Lord will judge and reward each individual according to heartfelt desire as well as deed.”10Second, the precise time and manner in which the blessings of exaltation are bestowed have not all been revealed, but they are nonetheless assured.11 President Dallin H. Oaks explained that some of the circumstances “of mortality will be set right in the Millennium, which is the time for fulfilling all that is incomplete in the great plan of happiness for all of our Father’s worthy children.”12That doesn’t mean that every blessing is deferred until the Millennium; some have already been received, and others will continue to be received until that day.13Third, waiting upon the Lord implies continued obedience and spiritual progress toward Him.
Waiting upon the Lord does not imply biding one’s time.
You should never feel like you are in a waiting room.Waiting upon the Lord implies action.
I have learned over the years that our hope in Christ increases when we serve others.
Serving as Jesus served, we naturally increase our hope in Him.The personal growth one can achieve now while waiting upon the Lord and His promises is an invaluable, sacred element of His plan for each one of us.
The contributions one can make now to help build up the Church on earth and to gather Israel are much needed.
Marital status has nothing to do with one’s capacity to serve.
The Lord honors those who serve and wait upon Him in patience and faith.14Fourth, God offers eternal life to all of His children.
All those who accept the Savior’s gracious gift of repentance and live His commandments will receive eternal life, even though they do not attain to all its characteristics and perfections in mortality.
Those who repent will experience the Lord’s readiness to forgive, as He has assured: “Yea, and as often as my people repent will I forgive them their trespasses against me.”15In the final analysis, a person’s capacity, desires, and opportunities in matters of agency and choice, including qualification for eternal blessings, are matters only the Lord can judge.Fifth, our confidence in these assurances is rooted in our faith in Jesus Christ, by whose grace all things pertaining to mortality are set right.16 All promised blessings are made possible through Him, who, by His Atonement, “descended below all things”17 and has “overcome the world.”18 He “hath sat down on the right hand of God, to claim of the Father his rights of mercy which he hath upon the children of men … ; wherefore he advocateth the cause of the children of men.”19 In the end, “the saints shall be filled with his glory, and receive their inheritance”20 as “joint-heirs with Christ.”21Our desire is that these principles will help all have increased hope in Christ and feel a sense of belonging.Never forget that you are a child of God, our Eternal Father, now and forever.
He loves you, and the Church wants and needs you.
Yes, we need you!
We need your voices, talents, skills, goodness, and righteousness.For many years, we have talked about “young single adults,” “single adults,” and “adults.” Those designations can be administratively helpful at times but can inadvertently change how we perceive others.Is there a way to avoid this human tendency that can separate us from one another?President Nelson asked that we refer to ourselves as members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
That seems to cover all of us, doesn’t it?The gospel of Jesus Christ has the power to unite us.
We are ultimately more alike than we are different.
As members of God’s family, we are truly brothers and sisters.
Paul stated, “And [God] hath made of one blood all nations of men for to dwell on all the face of the earth.”22To you stake presidents, bishops, and quorum and sister leaders, I ask you to consider every member of your stake, ward, quorum, or organization as a member who can contribute and serve in callings and participate in many ways.Every member in our quorums, organizations, wards, and stakes has God-given gifts and talents that can help build up His kingdom now.Let us call upon our members who are single to serve, lift, and teach.
Disregard old notions and ideas that have sometimes unintentionally contributed to their feelings of loneliness and that they do not belong or cannot serve.I bear my witness on this Easter weekend of our Savior, Jesus Christ, and the eternal hope He gives me and all who believe in His name.
And I bear this testimony humbly in His sacred name, even Jesus Christ, amen.
I was doing just fine until I saw the tears in the eyes of those young people in this choir.
Those tears are a more eloquent sermon than I could ever give.Looking up from water’s edge, past the eager crowds seeking baptism at his hand, John, called the Baptist, saw in the distance his cousin, Jesus of Nazareth, striding resolutely toward him to make a request for that same ordinance.
Reverently, but audible enough for those nearby to hear, John uttered the admiration that still moves us two millennia later: “Behold the Lamb of God.”1It is instructive that this long-prophesied forerunner to Jesus did not call Him “Jehovah” or “Savior” or “Redeemer” or even “the Son of God”—all of which were applicable titles.
No, John chose the earliest and perhaps most commonly recognized image in the religious tradition of his people.
He used the figure of a sacrificial lamb offered in atonement for the sins and sorrows of a fallen world and all the fallen people in it.Please indulge me in recalling just a little of that history.After expulsion from the Garden of Eden, Adam and Eve faced a devastating future.
Having opened the door to mortality and temporal life for us, they had closed the door to immortality and eternal life for themselves.
Due to a transgression they had consciously chosen to make in our behalf, they now faced physical death and spiritual banishment, separation from the presence of God forever.2 What were they to do?
Would there be a way out of this plight?
We are not certain just how much these two were allowed to remember of the instruction they received while still in the garden, but they did remember they were to regularly offer for a sacrifice unto God a pure, unblemished lamb, the first male born of their flock.3Later an angel came to explain that this sacrifice was a type, a prefiguration of the offering that would be made in their behalf by the Savior of the world who was to come.
“This thing is a similitude of the sacrifice of the Only Begotten of the Father,” the angel said.
“Wherefore, … thou shalt repent and call upon God in the name of the Son forevermore.”4 Fortunately, there was going to be a way out and a way up.In the premortal councils of heaven, God had promised Adam and Eve (and all the rest of us) that help would come from His pure, unblemished Firstborn Son, the Lamb of God “slain from the foundation of the world,”5 as the Apostle John would later describe Him.
By offering their own little symbolic lambs in mortality, Adam and his posterity were expressing their understanding of and their dependence upon the atoning sacrifice of Jesus the Anointed One.6 Later, the wilderness tabernacle would become the setting for this ordinance and, after that, the temple that Solomon would build.Unfortunately, as a symbol of genuine repentance and faithful living, this ritualistic offering of unblemished little lambs didn’t work very well, as so much of the Old Testament reveals.
The moral resolve that should have accompanied those sacrifices sometimes didn’t last long enough for the blood to dry upon the stones.
In any case, it didn’t last long enough to preclude fratricide, with Cain killing his brother Abel in the first generation.7With such trials and troubles going on for centuries, no wonder the angels of heaven sang for joy when, finally, Jesus was born—the long-promised Messiah Himself.
Following His brief mortal ministry, this purest of all Passover sheep prepared His disciples for His death by introducing the sacrament of the Lord’s Supper, a more personal form of the ordinance that had been introduced just outside of Eden.
There would still be an offering, it would still involve a sacrifice, but it would be with symbolism much deeper, much more introspective and personal than the bloodletting of a firstborn lamb.
To the Nephites, after His Resurrection, the Savior said of this:“Ye shall offer up unto me no more the shedding of blood.
…“… Ye shall offer for a sacrifice unto me a broken heart and a contrite spirit.
And whoso cometh unto me with a broken heart and a contrite spirit, him will I baptize with fire and with the Holy Ghost.
…“… Therefore repent, … and be saved.”8My beloved brothers and sisters, with the exciting new emphasis on increased gospel learning in the home, it is crucial for us to remember that we are still commanded to “go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day.”9 In addition to making time for more home-centered gospel instruction, our modified Sunday service is also to reduce the complexity of the meeting schedule in a way that properly emphasizes the sacrament of the Lord’s Supper as the sacred, acknowledged focal point of our weekly worship experience.
We are to remember in as personal a way as possible that Christ died from a heart broken by shouldering entirely alone the sins and sorrows of the whole human family.Inasmuch as we contributed to that fatal burden, such a moment demands our respect.
Thus, we are encouraged to come to our services early and reverently, dressed appropriately for participation in a sacred ordinance.
“Sunday best” has lost a little of its meaning in our time, and out of esteem for Him into whose presence we come, we ought to restore that tradition of Sabbath dress and grooming when and where we can.As for punctuality, a late pass will always be lovingly granted to those blessed mothers who, with children and Cheerios and diaper bags trailing in marvelous disarray, are lucky to have made it to church at all.
Furthermore, there will be others who unavoidably find their ox in the mire on a Sabbath morning.
However, to this latter group we say an occasional tardiness is understandable, but if the ox is in the mire every Sunday, then we strongly recommend that you sell the ox or fill the mire.In that same spirit, we make an apostolic plea for the reduction of clamor in the sanctuary of our buildings.
We love to visit with each other, and we should—it is one of the joys of church attendance—but it ought not be pursued so vocally in space specifically dedicated for worship.
I fear that visitors not of our faith are shocked by what can sometimes be noisy irreverence in a setting that is supposed to be characterized by prayer, testimony, revelation, and peace.
Perhaps heaven is a little shocked as well.It will add to the spirit of our sacrament meetings if the presiding officers are on the stand well before the meeting is to begin, listening to the prelude music and reverently setting the example the rest of us ought to follow.
If there is chatter on the stand, we shouldn’t be surprised at chatter in the congregation.
We congratulate those bishoprics who are eliminating announcements that detract from the spirit of our worship.
I, for one, cannot imagine a priest such as Zacharias—there in the ancient temple of the Lord, about to participate in the one and only priestly privilege that would come to him in his entire lifetime—I just cannot picture him pausing before the altar to remind us that the pinewood derby is just six weeks away and registration will soon be due.Brothers and sisters, this hour ordained of the Lord is the most sacred hour of our week.
By commandment, we gather for the most universally received ordinance in the Church.
It is in memory of Him who asked if the cup He was about to drink could pass, only to press on because He knew that for our sake it could not pass.
It will help us if we remember that a symbol of that cup is slowly making its way down the row toward us at the hand of an 11- or 12-year-old deacon.When the sacred hour comes to present our sacrificial gift to the Lord, we do have our own sins and shortcomings to resolve; that’s why we’re there.
But we might be more successful in such contrition if we are mindful of the other broken hearts and sorrowing spirits that surround us.
Seated not far away are some who may have wept—outwardly or inwardly—through the entire sacramental hymn and the prayers of those priests.
Might we silently take note of that and offer our little crust of comfort and our tiny cup of compassion—might we dedicate it to them?
or to the weeping, struggling member who is not in the service and, except for some redemptive ministering on our part, won’t be there next week either?
or to our brothers and sisters who are not members of the Church at all but are our brothers and sisters?
There is no shortage of suffering in this world, inside the Church and out, so look in any direction and you will find someone whose pain seems too heavy to bear and whose heartache seems never to end.
One way to “always remember him”10 would be to join the Great Physician in His never-ending task of lifting the load from those who are burdened and relieving the pain of those who are distraught.Beloved friends, as we unite across the globe each week in what we hope is an increasingly sacred acknowledgment of Christ’s majestic atoning gift to all humankind, may we bring to the sacramental altar “more tears for his sorrows [and] more pain at his grief.” And then, as we reflect, pray, and covenant anew, may we take from that sacred moment “more patience in suff’ring, … more praise for relief.”11 For such patience and relief, for such holiness and hope, I pray for all of you in the name of Him who broke the precious bread of forgiveness and poured the holy wine of redemption, even Jesus Christ, the great and merciful and holy Lamb of God, amen.
Dear brothers and sisters, as we close this session, may we each hold in our hearts the witness borne today of the truths of the gospel of Jesus Christ.
We are blessed to have this sacred time together to reinforce our promise to the Lord Jesus Christ that we are His servants and He is our Savior.The importance of making and keeping promises and covenants weighs heavy on my mind.
How important is it to you to keep your word?
to be trusted?
to do what you say you will do?
to strive to honor your sacred covenants?
to have integrity?
By living true to our promises to the Lord and to others, we walk the covenant path back to our Father in Heaven and we feel His love in our lives.Our Savior, Jesus Christ, is our great Exemplar when it comes to making and keeping promises and covenants.
He came to earth promising to do the will of the Father.
He taught gospel principles in word and in deed.
He atoned for our sins that we might live again.
He has honored every one of His promises.Can the same be said of each of us?
What are the dangers if we cheat a little, slip a little, or do not quite follow through with our commitments?
What if we walk away from our covenants?
Will others come unto Christ in light of our example?
Is your word your bond?
Keeping promises is not a habit; it is a characteristic of being a disciple of Jesus Christ.Ever mindful of our frailties in mortal life, the Lord promised, “Be of good cheer, and do not fear, for I the Lord am with you, and will stand by you.”1 I have felt His presence when needing reassurance, comfort, or greater spiritual insight or strength, and I have been deeply humbled and am grateful for His divine companionship.The Lord has said, “Every soul who forsaketh his sins and cometh unto me, and calleth on my name, and obeyeth my voice, and keepeth my commandments, shall see my face and know that I am.”2 That is perhaps His ultimate promise.I learned the importance of keeping my word in my youth.
One such example is when I stood at attention to recite the Scout Oath.
Our association with the Boy Scouts of America, as it now concludes, will always be an important legacy to me and this Church.
To the Scouting organization, to the scores of men and women who have served diligently as Scout leaders, to the moms—real credit goes there—and to the young men who have participated in Scouting, we say, “Thank you.”In this very session, our dear prophet, President Russell M. Nelson, and Elder Quentin L. Cook have announced adjustments that will refocus our attention on youth and align our organizations with revealed truth.
In addition, just last Sunday, President Nelson and President M. Russell Ballard explained the new Children and Youth of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints program for the entire Church.
It is a worldwide initiative focused on our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ.
The First Presidency and Quorum of the Twelve Apostles are unified in this new direction, and I personally bear my witness that the Lord has guided us every step of the way.
I am excited for the children and youth of the Church to experience this integrated focus on them both at home and at church—through gospel learning, service and activities, and personal development.The youth theme for this coming year, 2020, speaks of Nephi’s classic promise to “go and do.” He wrote, “And it came to pass that I, Nephi, said unto my father: I will go and do the things which the Lord hath commanded, for I know that the Lord giveth no commandments unto the children of men, save he shall prepare a way for them that they may accomplish the thing which he commandeth them.”3 Although it was uttered long ago, we in the Church stand on that promise today.To “go and do” means rising above the ways of the world, receiving and acting on personal revelation, living righteously with hope and faith in the future, making and keeping covenants to follow Jesus Christ, and thereby increasing our love for Him, the Savior of the world.A covenant is a two-way promise between us and the Lord.
As members of the Church, we covenant at baptism to take upon us the name of Jesus Christ, to live as He lived.
Like those baptized at the Waters of Mormon, we covenant to become His people, “to bear one another’s burdens, that they may be light; … to mourn with those that mourn; … comfort those that stand in need of comfort, and to stand as witnesses of God at all times and in all things, and in all places.”4 Our ministering one to another in the Church reflects our commitment to honor those very promises.When we partake of the sacrament, we renew that covenant to take upon us His name and make additional promises to improve.
Our daily thoughts and actions, both large and small, reflect our commitment to Him.
His sacred promise in return is “If ye do always remember me ye shall have my Spirit to be with you.”5My question today is, do we stand by our promises and covenants, or are they sometimes half-hearted commitments, casually made and hence easily broken?
When we say to someone, “I will pray for you,” do we?
When we commit, “I will be there to help,” will we?
When we obligate ourselves to pay a debt, do we?
When we raise our hands to sustain a fellow member in a new calling, which means to give support, do we?One evening in my youth, my mother sat with me at the foot of her bed and spoke fervently of the importance of living the Word of Wisdom.
“I know from the experiences of others, from years ago,” she said, “the loss of spirituality and sensitivity that comes from not following the Word of Wisdom.” She looked right into my eyes, and I felt her words penetrate my heart: “Promise me, Ronnie, today [she called me Ronnie], that you will always live the Word of Wisdom.” I solemnly made that promise to her, and I have held to it all these years.That commitment served me well when I was in my youth and in later years when I was in business circles where substances flowed freely.
I made a decision in advance to follow God’s laws, and I never had to revisit it.
The Lord has said, “I, the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise.”6 What is He saying to those who abide by the Word of Wisdom?
That we will have the promise of health, strength, wisdom, knowledge, and angels to protect us.7Some years ago, Sister Rasband and I were at the Salt Lake Temple for the sealing of one of our daughters.
As we stood outside the temple with a younger daughter not yet old enough to attend the ceremony, we spoke of the importance of being sealed in the holy temple of God.
As my mother had taught me years before, we said to our daughter, “We want you safely sealed in the temple, and we want you to promise us that when you find your eternal companion, you will make a date with him to be sealed in the temple.” She gave us her word.She has since stated that our talk and her promise protected her and reminded her “what was most important.” She later made sacred covenants as she was sealed to her husband in the temple.President Nelson has taught: “We … increase the Savior’s power in our lives when we make sacred covenants and keep those covenants with precision.
Our covenants bind us to Him and give us godly power.”8When we keep promises to one another, we are more likely to keep promises to the Lord.
Remember the Lord’s words: “Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me.”9Reflect with me on examples of promises in the scriptures.
Ammon and the sons of Mosiah in the Book of Mormon committed “to preach the word of God.”10 When Ammon was captured by Lamanite forces, he was taken before the Lamanite King Lamoni.
He committed to the king, “I will be thy servant.”11 When raiders came to steal the king’s sheep, Ammon cut off their arms.
So astonished was the king, he listened to Ammon’s message of the gospel and was converted.Ruth, in the Old Testament, promised her mother-in-law, “Whither thou goest, I will go.”12 She lived true to her word.
The good Samaritan, in a parable in the New Testament, promised the innkeeper if he would care for the injured traveler, “Whatsoever thou spendest more, when I come again, I will repay thee.”13 Zoram, in the Book of Mormon, promised to go into the wilderness with Nephi and his brothers.
Nephi recounted, “When Zoram had made an oath unto us, our fears did cease concerning him.”14What of the ancient promise “made to the fathers” as described in the scriptures that “the hearts of the children shall turn to their fathers”?15 In the pre-earth life when we chose God’s plan, we made a promise to help gather Israel on both sides of the veil.
“We went into a partnership with the Lord,” Elder John A. Widtsoe explained years ago.
“The working out of the plan became then not merely the Father’s work, and the Savior’s work, but also our work.”16“[The] gathering is the most important thing taking place on earth today,” President Nelson has said as he has traveled the world.
“When we speak of the gathering, we are simply saying this fundamental truth: every one of our Heavenly Father’s children, on both sides of the veil, deserves to hear the message of the restored gospel of Jesus Christ.”17As an Apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ, I conclude with an invitation and promise.
First, the invitation: I invite you to consider the promises and covenants you make with the Lord, and with others, with great integrity, knowing that your word is your bond.
Second, I promise you, as you do this, the Lord will establish your words and sanction your deeds as you strive with unwearied diligence to build up your lives, your families, and The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
He will be with you, my dear brothers and sisters, and you can, with confidence, look forward to being “received into heaven, that thereby [you] may dwell with God in a state of never-ending happiness … for the Lord God hath spoken it.”18Of this I testify and promise in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
My dear brethren of the priesthood, one of the most memorable lines in a much-loved hymn asks, “Shall the youth of Zion falter?”1 My heartfelt and resounding declaration in answer to that question is “No!”To make sure that answer holds true, I testify today that supporting the rising generation in a time of unusual challenges and temptations is an essential responsibility given to parents and bishoprics by Heavenly Father.2 Let me illustrate the importance of a bishopric with a personal experience.When I was a deacon, my family moved to a new home in a different ward.
I was beginning junior high school, so I also attended a new school.
There was a marvelous group of young men in the deacons quorum.
Most of their parents were active members.
My mother was completely active; my father was exceptional in every way but was not an active member.The second counselor in the bishopric,3 Brother Dean Eyre, was a devoted leader.
When I was still adjusting to the new ward, a father-son event was announced for Bear Lake—about 40 miles (65 km) away.
I did not think I would attend without my father.
But Brother Eyre issued a special invitation for me to go with him.
He spoke highly and respectfully of my father and stressed the significance of my opportunity to be with the other members of the deacons quorum.
So I decided to go with Brother Eyre, and I had a wonderful experience.Brother Eyre was a marvelous example of Christlike love in fulfilling the bishopric’s responsibility to support parents in watching over and nurturing the youth.
He gave me an excellent start in this new ward and was a mentor to me.A few months before I left for a mission in 1960, Brother Eyre passed away from cancer at age 39.
He left a wife and their five children, all younger than age 16.
His oldest sons, Richard and Chris Eyre, have assured me that in the absence of their father, bishoprics supported and watched out for them and their younger brothers and sister with Christlike love, for which I am grateful.Parents will always have the main responsibility for their families.4 Quorum presidencies also provide essential support and guidance to quorum members by assisting them in elevating the duties and power of the Aaronic Priesthood to the center of their lives.5Today my purpose is to focus on bishops and their counselors, who can appropriately be called “shepherds over the Lord’s flock”—with emphasis on being shepherds for the rising generation.6 It is interesting that the Apostle Peter referred to Jesus Christ as “the Shepherd and Bishop of your souls.”7The bishop has five principal responsibilities in presiding over a ward:He is the presiding high priest in the ward.8He is president of the Aaronic Priesthood.9He is a common judge.10He coordinates the work of salvation and exaltation, including caring for those in need.11And he oversees records, finances, and the use of the meetinghouse.12In his role as presiding high priest, the bishop is the ward’s “spiritual leader.”13 He is a “faithful disciple of Jesus Christ.”14In addition, “the bishop coordinates the work of salvation and exaltation in the ward.”15 The bishop should assign the day-to-day responsibility for sharing the gospel, strengthening new and returning members, ministering, and temple and family history work to the elders quorum and Relief Society presidencies.16 The bishop coordinates this work in the ward council and ward youth council.The bishop has a paramount role in serving as a shepherd to guide the rising generation, including young single adults, to Jesus Christ.17 President Russell M. Nelson has emphasized the seminal role of the bishop and his counselors.
He has taught that their “first and foremost responsibility is to care for the young men and young women of [their] ward.”18 The bishopric supports parents in watching over and nurturing children and youth in the ward.
The bishop and ward Young Women president counsel together.
They strive to help the youth live the standards in For the Strength of Youth, qualify to receive ordinances, and make and keep sacred covenants.You might ask, “Why is the bishop directed to spend so much time with the youth?” The Lord has organized His Church to accomplish crucial priorities.
Accordingly, the organization of His Church has a structure in which the bishop has a dual responsibility.
He has doctrinal responsibility for the ward as a whole, but he also has specific doctrinal responsibility for the priests quorum.19The young men who are priests and the young women of the same age are at a very important stage in their lives and development.
During a short period of time, they make decisions that have significant lifelong implications.
They determine whether they will qualify for the temple, serve a mission,20 strive to be married in the temple, and prepare for their life’s work.
These decisions, once made, have profound spiritual and practical implications for the remainder of their lives.
Bishops, please know that a relatively short time spent with a young priest, young woman, or young adult can help them understand the power available to them through the Atonement of Jesus Christ.
It can provide a vision that will have a profound influence upon their entire life.One of the best examples I have seen of a bishop who helped provide this kind of vision for his youth was Bishop Moa Mahe.
He was called to be the first bishop of the San Francisco Tongan Ward.21 He was an immigrant from Vava‘u, Tonga.
His ward was located near the San Francisco, California, airport, where he worked.22The ward had a large number of youth, most from families who had recently immigrated to the United States.
Bishop Mahe not only taught them in word and by example how to be righteous disciples of Jesus Christ, but he also helped give them a vision of what they could become and helped them prepare for the temple, missions, education, and employment.
He served for almost eight years, and his dreams and desires for the youth became a reality.Nearly 90 percent of the young men in the Aaronic Priesthood quorums served missions.
Fifteen young men and women were the first members of their families to attend college.23 He met with the principal of the local high school (not of our faith), and they forged a friendship and collaborated on how to assist each young person to achieve worthwhile goals and overcome problems.
The principal told me that Bishop Mahe assisted him in working with immigrants of all faiths who were struggling.
The young people knew that the bishop loved them.Sadly, Bishop Mahe passed away while serving as bishop.
I will never forget his touching and inspiring funeral.
There was a huge crowd.
The choir was composed of more than 35 faithful young members who had served missions or were attending college and who had been youth during his service as bishop.
One speaker expressed the intense feeling of appreciation from the youth and young adults in his ward.
He paid tribute to Bishop Mahe for the vision he had given them in preparing for life and righteous service.
But most important, Bishop Mahe had assisted them in building faith in the Lord Jesus Christ as the foundation of their lives.Now, bishops, wherever you serve, in your interviews and other associations, you can provide that kind of vision and build faith in Jesus Christ.
You can extend powerful invitations to change behavior, prepare them for life, and inspire them to stay on the covenant path.In addition, you may help some youth who are in conflict with parents over things that are relatively unimportant.24 At a time when young people seem to have maximum conflict with their parents, the person who presides over their quorum and to whom they answer ecclesiastically is also the person to whom their parents go for temple recommends.
This puts the bishop in a unique position to counsel both the youth and their parents when contention has created a division.
Bishops can help both view things with an eternal perspective and resolve issues of more or less importance.
We recommend that bishops not have assigned ministering families so they can focus their time and energy ministering to the youth and their families in these kinds of situations.25I am aware of one bishop who was able to resolve extreme contention between a son and his parents, bringing harmony to the home and enhanced commitment to the gospel.
The bishop helped the parents understand that striving to be a disciple of Jesus Christ was more important than exactly how and when family chores were accomplished.In order to spend more time with youth, wherever they are, including at school events or activities, bishoprics have been counseled to delegate appropriate meetings and counseling time with adults.
While bishops can counsel on acute and urgent matters, we recommend that delegation of ongoing counseling with chronic, less urgent matters that do not involve judgments as to worthiness be assigned to members of the elders quorum or Relief Society—usually presidencies or ministering brothers and sisters.
The Spirit will guide the leaders26 to select the right members to undertake this counseling.
Those who receive this delegated counseling assignment are entitled to revelation.
They, of course, must always maintain strict confidentiality.Thoughtful leaders have always sacrificed for the rising generation.
This is where the bishopric members spend the majority of their Church-service time.I now desire to say a few things directly to the youth and then to our bishops.Many of you precious young people may not have a clear vision of who you are and who you can become.
Yet you are at the threshold of the most important decisions you will make in your lives.
Please counsel with both your parents and your bishop about important choices that are ahead of you.
Allow the bishop to be your friend and counselor.We are aware that you have trials and temptations coming at you from every direction.
We all need to repent daily, as President Nelson has taught.
Please talk to your bishop about any matter in which a common judge can assist you in getting your life in order with the Lord in preparation for the “great work” He has for you in this final dispensation.27 As President Nelson has invited you, please qualify yourself to be part of the Lord’s youth battalion!28Now a word for you precious bishops on behalf of the leadership and members of the Church.
We express our deep gratitude to you.
With the adjustments that you have been requested to make in recent years, dear bishops, please know how much we love and appreciate you.
Your contribution to the kingdom is almost beyond description.
The Church has 30,900 bishops and branch presidents serving across the world.29 We honor each of you.Some words and the sacred callings they describe are imbued with almost a spiritual, transcendent significance.
The calling of bishop is definitely in the top tier of such words.
To serve the Lord in this capacity is remarkable in so many ways.
The calling, sustaining, and setting apart of a bishop is a never-to-be-forgotten experience.
For me, it ranks with a small number of sublime events in the wide range and depth of feelings it evokes.
It sits comfortably in a hierarchy of precious events like marriage and fatherhood that cannot be described in a few words.30Bishops, we sustain you!
Bishops, we love you!
You are truly the Lord’s shepherds over His flock.
The Savior will not forsake you in these sacred callings.
Of this I testify, on this Easter weekend, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
Dear brothers and sisters: with hosanna and hallelujah, we celebrate the living Jesus Christ at this season of continuing Restoration and Easter.
With perfect love, our Savior assures us: “In me ye might have peace.
In the world ye shall have tribulation: but be of good cheer; I have overcome the world.”1Some years ago, as Sister Gong and I met a lovely family, their young daughter, Ivy, shyly brought out her violin case.
She lifted out the violin bow, tightened and put rosin on it.
Then she put the bow back in the case, curtsied, and sat down.
A new beginner, she had just shared all she knew about the violin.
Now, years later, Ivy plays the violin beautifully.In this mortal period, we are all a little like Ivy and her violin.
We begin at the beginning.
With practice and persistence, we grow and improve.
With the passage of time, moral agency and mortal experiences help us become more like our Savior as we labor with Him in His vineyard2 and follow His covenant path.Anniversaries, including this bicentennial, highlight patterns of restoration.3 In celebrating the ongoing Restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ, we also prepare for Easter.
In both, we rejoice in the return of Jesus Christ.
He lives—not only then, but now; not just for some, but for all.
He came and comes to heal the brokenhearted, deliver the captives, recover sight to the blind, and set at liberty those who are bruised.4 That’s each of us.
His redeeming promises apply, no matter our past, our present, or concerns for our future.Tomorrow is Palm Sunday.
Traditionally, palms are a sacred symbol to express joy in our Lord, as in Christ’s Triumphal Entry into Jerusalem, where “much people … took branches of palm trees, and went forth to meet him.”5 (You may be interested to know the original of this Harry Anderson painting hangs in President Russell M. Nelson’s office, just behind his desk.)
In the book of Revelation, those who praise God and the Lamb do so “clothed with white robes, and palms in their hands.”6 Along with “robes of righteousness” and “crowns of glory,” palms are included in the Kirtland Temple dedicatory prayer.7Of course, the significance of Palm Sunday goes beyond crowds greeting Jesus with palms.
On Palm Sunday, Jesus entered Jerusalem in ways the faithful recognized as fulfillment of prophecy.
As Zechariah8 and the Psalmist prophetically foretold, our Lord entered Jerusalem riding a colt as multitudes knowingly cried, “Hosanna in the highest.”9 Hosanna means “save now.”10 Then, as now, we rejoice, “Blessed be he that cometh in the name of the Lord.”11A week following Palm Sunday is Easter Sunday.
President Russell M. Nelson teaches that Jesus Christ “came to pay a debt He didn’t owe because we owed a debt we couldn’t pay.”12 Indeed, through the Atonement of Christ, all God’s children “may be saved, by obedience to the laws and ordinances of the Gospel.”13 At Easter, we sing hallelujah.
Hallelujah means “praise ye the Lord Jehovah.”14 The “Hallelujah Chorus” in Handel’s Messiah is a beloved Easter declaration that He is “King of Kings, and Lord of Lords.”15The sacred events between Palm Sunday and Easter Sunday are the story of hosanna and hallelujah.
Hosanna is our plea for God to save.
Hallelujah expresses our praise to the Lord for the hope of salvation and exaltation.
In hosanna and hallelujah we recognize the living Jesus Christ as the heart of Easter and latter-day restoration.Latter-day restoration begins with theophany—the literal appearance of God the Father and His Son, Jesus Christ, to the young prophet Joseph Smith.
Said the Prophet Joseph, “Could you gaze into heaven five minutes, you would know more than you would by reading all that ever was written on the subject.”16 Because the heavens are again open, we know and “believe in God, the Eternal Father, and in His Son, Jesus Christ, and in the Holy Ghost”17—the divine Godhead.On Easter Sunday, April 3, 1836, in the early days of the Restoration, the living Jesus Christ appeared after the Kirtland Temple was dedicated.
Those who saw Him there testified of Him in complementary contrasts of fire and water: “His eyes were as a flame of fire; the hair of his head was white like the pure snow; his countenance shone above the brightness of the sun; and his voice was as the sound of the rushing of great waters, even the voice of Jehovah.”18On that occasion, our Savior declared, “I am the first and the last; I am he who liveth, I am he who was slain; I am your advocate with the Father.”19 Again, complementary contrasts—first and last, living and slain.
He is Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end,20 the author and finisher of our faith.21Following the appearance of Jesus Christ, Moses, Elias, and Elijah also came.
By divine direction, these great prophets of old restored priesthood keys and authority.
Thus, “the keys of this dispensation are committed”22 within His restored Church to bless all God’s children.The coming of Elijah in the Kirtland Temple also fulfilled Malachi’s Old Testament prophecy that Elijah would return “before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord.”23 In doing so, Elijah’s appearance coincided, though not by coincidence, with the Jewish Passover season, which tradition reverently anticipates Elijah’s return.Many devout Jewish families set a place for Elijah at their Passover table.
Many fill a cup to the brim to invite and welcome him.
And some, during the traditional Passover Seder, send a child to the door, sometimes left partly open, to see if Elijah is outside waiting to be invited in.24In fulfillment of prophecy and as part of the promised restoration of all things,25 Elijah did come as promised, at Easter and the onset of Passover.
He brought the sealing authority to bind families on earth and in heaven.
As Moroni taught the Prophet Joseph, Elijah “shall plant in the hearts of the children the promises made to the fathers, and the hearts of the children shall turn to their fathers.
If it were not so,” Moroni continued, “the whole earth would be utterly wasted at [the Lord’s] coming.”26 The spirit of Elijah, a manifestation of the Holy Ghost, draws us to our generations—past, present, and future—in our genealogies, histories, and temple service.Let us also briefly recall what Passover signifies.
Passover remembers the deliverance of the children of Israel from 400 years of bondage.
The book of Exodus relates how this deliverance came after plagues of frogs, lice, flies, the death of cattle, boils, blains, hail and fire, locusts, and thick darkness.
The final plague threatened the death of the firstborn in the land but not in the house of Israel if—if those households put the blood of an unblemished firstling lamb on the lintels of their doors.27The angel of death passed by the houses marked with the symbolic blood of the lamb.28 That passing by, or pass over, represents Jesus Christ ultimately overcoming death.
Indeed, the atoning blood of the Lamb of God gives our Good Shepherd power to gather His people in all places and circumstances into the safety of His fold on both sides of the veil.Significantly, the Book of Mormon describes the “power and resurrection of Christ”29—the essence of Easter—in terms of two restorations.First, resurrection includes physical restoration of our “proper and perfect frame”; “every limb and joint,” “even a hair of the head shall not be lost.”30 This promise gives hope to those who have lost limbs; those who have lost ability to see, hear, or walk; or those thought lost to relentless disease, mental illness, or other diminished capacity.
He finds us.
He makes us whole.A second promise of Easter and our Lord’s Atonement is that, spiritually, “all things shall be restored to their proper order.”31 This spiritual restoration reflects our works and desires.
Like bread upon the water,32 it restores “that which is good,” “righteous,” “just,” and “merciful.”33 No wonder the prophet Alma uses the word restore 22 times34 as he urges us to “deal justly, judge righteously, and do good continually.”35Because “God himself atoneth for the sins of the world,”36 the Lord’s Atonement can make whole not only what was but also what can be.
Because He knows our pains, afflictions, sicknesses, our “temptations of every kind,”37 He can, with mercy, succor us according to our infirmities.38 Because God is “a perfect, just God, and a merciful God also,” the plan of mercy can “appease the demands of justice.”39 We repent and do all we can.
He encircles us eternally “in the arms of his love.”40Today we celebrate restoration and resurrection.
With you, I rejoice in the ongoing Restoration of the fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ.
As began 200 years ago this spring, light and revelation continue to come forth through the Lord’s living prophet and His Church called in His name—The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints—and through personal revelation and inspiration by the supernal gift of the Holy Ghost.With you, at this Easter season, I testify of God, our Eternal Father, and His Beloved Son, the living Jesus Christ.
Mortal men were cruelly crucified and later resurrected.
But only the living Jesus Christ in His perfect resurrected form still bears the marks of crucifixion in His hands, feet, and side.
Only He can say, “I have graven thee upon the palms of my hands.”41 Only He can say: “I am he who was lifted up.
I am Jesus that was crucified.
I am the Son of God.”42Like little Ivy and her violin, we are in some ways still beginning.
Truly, “eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man, the things which God hath prepared for them that love him.”43 In these times, we can learn much of God’s goodness and our divine potential for God’s love to grow in us as we seek Him and reach out to each other.
In new ways and new places, we can do and become, line upon line, kindness upon kindness, individually and together.Dear brothers and sisters everywhere, as we meet and learn together, your faith and goodness fill me with a sense of gospel adventure and gratitude.
Your testimony and gospel journey enrich my testimony and gospel journey.
Your concerns and joys, your love for the household of God and community of Saints, and your lived understanding of restored truth and light increase my fulness of the restored gospel, with the living Jesus Christ at its heart.
Together we trust, “thru cloud and sunshine, Lord, abide with me.”44 Unitedly we know, amidst our loads and cares, we can count our many blessings.45 In the daily details and small and simple things, we can see great things brought to pass in our lives.46“And it shall come to pass that the righteous shall be gathered out from among all nations, and shall come to Zion, singing with songs of everlasting joy.”47 At this season of hosanna and hallelujah, sing hallelujah—for He shall reign forever and ever!
Shout hosanna, to God and the Lamb!
In the sacred and holy name of Jesus Christ, amen.
I am grateful to be here.
When I first found out I would have the opportunity to speak to you today, I felt very excited but at the same time very humbled.
I have spent a lot of time thinking about what I could share, and I hope the Spirit speaks to you directly through my message.In the Book of Mormon, Lehi gives a blessing to each of his sons before he passes away that helps them to see their strengths and eternal potential.
I am the youngest of eight children, and this past year I have been the only child at home for the first time.
Not having my siblings close by and not always having someone to talk to has been hard for me.
There have been nights when I have felt very lonely.
I’m grateful for my parents, who have tried their best to help me.
An example of this is when my dad offered to give me a priesthood blessing of comfort during a particularly challenging time.
After his blessing, things didn’t change right away, but I was able to feel peace and love from my Heavenly Father and from my dad.
I feel blessed to have a worthy father who can provide priesthood blessings whenever I need them and who helps me to see my strengths and eternal potential, just as Lehi did when he blessed his children.Regardless of your circumstances, you can always have access to priesthood blessings.
Through family members, friends, ministering brothers, priesthood leaders, and a Heavenly Father who will never fail you, you can receive the blessings of the priesthood.
Elder Neil L. Andersen said: “The blessings of the priesthood are infinitely greater than the one who is asked to administer the gift.
… As we are worthy, the ordinances of the priesthood enrich our lives.”1Don’t hesitate to ask for a blessing when you need extra guidance.
It is in our difficult moments that we need the Spirit to help us the most.
No one is perfect, and we all experience hardships.
Some of us might suffer with anxiety, depression, addiction, or feelings that we are not enough.
Priesthood blessings can help us overcome these challenges and receive peace as we move forward into the future.
I hope that we strive to live worthy of receiving these blessings.Another way the priesthood blesses us is through patriarchal blessings.
I have learned to turn to my patriarchal blessing whenever I feel sad or lonely.
My blessing helps me to see my potential and the specific plan God has for me.
It comforts me and helps me to see beyond my earthly perspective.
It reminds me of my gifts and of the blessings I will receive if I live worthily.
It also helps me to remember and feel at peace that God will provide answers and open doors for me at exactly the right moment when I need it most.Patriarchal blessings help prepare us to return to live with our Heavenly Father.
I know patriarchal blessings come from God and can help us turn our weaknesses into strengths.
These are not messages from fortune-tellers; these blessings tell us what we need to hear.
They are like a Liahona for each one of us.
When we put God first and have faith in Him, He will lead us through our own wilderness.Just like God blessed Joseph Smith with the priesthood so that the blessings of the gospel could be restored, we can receive the blessings of the gospel in our lives through the priesthood.
Each week we are given the privilege and opportunity of taking the sacrament.
Through this priesthood ordinance, we can have the Spirit to always be with us, which can cleanse and purify us.
If you feel the need to eliminate something from your life, reach out to a trusted leader who can help you get on the right path.
Your leaders can help you to access the full power of the Atonement of Jesus Christ.Thanks to the priesthood, we can also receive the blessings of ordinances of the temple.
Ever since I’ve been able to enter the temple, I have made it a goal and priority to attend regularly.
By taking the time and making the sacrifices necessary to be closer to my Heavenly Father in His holy house, I have been blessed with receiving revelation and promptings that have really helped me throughout my life.Through the priesthood, we can be lifted.
The priesthood brings light into our world.
Elder Robert D. Hales said: “Without the power of the priesthood, ‘the whole earth would be utterly wasted’ (see D&C 2:1–3).
There would be no light, no hope—only darkness.”2God is cheering for us.
He wants us to return to Him.
He knows us personally.
He knows you.
He loves us.
He is always aware of us and blesses us even when we feel we don’t deserve it.
He knows what we need and when we need it.“Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you:“For every one that asketh receiveth; and he that seeketh findeth; and to him that knocketh it shall be opened” (Matthew 7:7–8).If you don’t already have a testimony about the priesthood, I encourage you to pray and ask to know for yourself of its power, then read the scriptures to hear God’s words.
I know that if we make an effort to experience the power of God’s priesthood in our lives, we will be blessed.
In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
In 2010, Andre Sebako was a young man seeking for truth.
Though he had never offered a heartfelt prayer before, he decided to try.
Shortly afterward he met the missionaries.
They gave him a pass-along card with a picture of the Book of Mormon.
Andre felt something and asked if the missionaries would sell him the book.
They said he could have the book for free if he would come to church.1Andre attended the then-recently created Mochudi Branch in Botswana, Africa, alone.
But the branch was a loving, tight-knit group consisting of about 40 members.2 They welcomed Andre with open arms.
He received the missionary lessons and was baptized.
It was wonderful!But then what?
How would Andre stay active?
Who would help him progress along the covenant path?
One answer to that question is his priesthood quorum!3Every priesthood holder, regardless of his situation, benefits from a strong quorum.
My young brothers who hold the Aaronic Priesthood, the Lord would have you establish a strong quorum, a place of belonging for each and every young man, a place where the Lord’s Spirit is present, a place where all quorum members are welcome and valued.
As the Lord gathers His children, they need a place to belong and grow.Each of you quorum presidency members lead the way as you seek inspiration4 and develop love and brotherhood among all quorum members.
You give special attention to those who are new members, who are less active, or who have special needs.5 With priesthood power, you build a strong quorum.6 And a strong, united quorum makes all the difference in the life of a young man.When the Church announced the new home-centered focus on gospel learning,7 some thought of members like Andre and asked, “What about the young people who come from a family situation where the gospel is not studied and where there is not an environment of learning and living the gospel at home?
Will they be left behind?”No!
No one can be left behind!
The Lord loves each young man and each young woman.
We, as priesthood holders, are the Lord’s hands.
We are the Church support to home-centered efforts.
When there is limited support at home, priesthood quorums and other leaders and friends watch over and support each individual and family as needed.I have seen it work.
I have experienced it.
When I was six, my parents divorced and my father left my mother with five young children.
My mother began working to provide for us.
She needed a second job for a period of time, as well as additional education.
There was little time for her to nurture.
But grandparents, uncles, aunts, bishops, and home teachers stepped up to help my angel mother.And I had a quorum.
I am so grateful for my friends—my brothers—who loved and supported me.
My quorum was a place of belonging.
Some may have considered me a long shot and an underdog because of my family situation.
Maybe I was.
But priesthood quorums changed those odds.
My quorum rallied around me and blessed my life immeasurably.There are long shots and underdogs all around us.
Perhaps we all are in one way or another.
But each of us here has a quorum, a place where we can both receive strength and provide strength.
The quorum is “all for one and one for all.”8 It is a place where we instruct each other, serve others, and build unity and brotherhood as we serve God.9 It is a place where miracles happen.I would like to tell you about some of the miracles that occurred in Andre’s quorum in Mochudi.
As I share this example, watch for principles that strengthen every priesthood quorum that applies them.After Andre was baptized, he accompanied the missionaries as they taught four other young men, who were also baptized.
Now there were five young men.
They began strengthening each other and the branch.A sixth young man, Thuso, was baptized.
Thuso shared the gospel with three of his friends, and soon there were nine.Disciples of Jesus Christ are often gathered this way—a few at a time, as invited by their friends.
Anciently, when Andrew found the Savior, he went quickly to his brother Simon and “brought him to Jesus.”10 Similarly, soon after Philip became a follower of Christ, he invited his friend Nathanael to “come and see.”11In Mochudi, a 10th young man soon joined the Church.
The missionaries found the 11th.
And the 12th young man was baptized after seeing the gospel’s effect on his friends.Members of the Mochudi Branch were thrilled.
These young men “were converted unto the Lord, and … united unto the church.”12The Book of Mormon played a significant role in their conversion.13 Thuso remembers, “I began reading the Book of Mormon … every time I was free, at home, at school, everywhere.”14Oratile was drawn to the gospel because of the example of his friends.
He explains: “[They] seemed to change in the snap of a finger.
… I thought it had … to do with the little … book they started carrying around … school.
I could see what good men they had become.
… [I] wanted to change too.”15All 12 young men were gathered and baptized within two years of each other.
Each was the only member of the Church in his family.
But they were supported by their Church family, including President Rakwela,16 their branch president; Elder and Sister Taylor,17 a senior missionary couple; and other branch members.Brother Junior,18 a quorum leader, invited the young men to his home on Sunday afternoons and mentored them.
The young men studied the scriptures together and held regular home evenings.Brother Junior took them to visit members, people being taught by the missionaries, and anyone else who needed a visit.
All 12 young men piled into the back of Brother Junior’s truck.
He dropped them off at homes in companionships of two or three and picked them up later.Even though the young men were just learning about the gospel and didn’t feel they knew much, Brother Junior told them to share one or two things they did know with the people they visited.
These young priesthood holders taught, prayed, and helped watch over the Church.19 They fulfilled their priesthood responsibilities and experienced the joy of serving.Andre said, “We played together, laughed together, cried together, and became a brotherhood.”20 In fact, they call themselves “the Band of Brothers.”Together they set a goal that they would all serve missions.
Since they were the only Church members in their families, they had many obstacles to overcome, but they helped each other through them.One by one, the young men received mission calls.
Those who left first wrote letters home to those still preparing, sharing experiences and encouraging them to serve.
Eleven of the young men served missions.These young men shared the gospel with their families.
Mothers, sisters, brothers, friends, as well as people they taught on their missions, were converted and baptized.
Miracles occurred and countless lives were blessed.I can hear some of you thinking that perhaps such a miracle could happen only in a place like Africa, a fertile field where the gathering of Israel is hastening.
However, I testify that the principles applied in the Mochudi Branch are true anywhere.
Wherever you are, your quorum can grow through activation and sharing the gospel.
When even one disciple reaches out to a friend, one can become two.
Two can become four.
Four can become eight.
And eight can become twelve.
Branches can become wards.The Savior taught, “Where two or three [or more] are gathered together in my name, … behold, there will I be in the midst of them.”21 Heavenly Father is preparing the minds and hearts of people all around us.
We can follow promptings, extend a hand of fellowship, share truth, invite others to read the Book of Mormon, and love and support them as they come to know our Savior.It has been almost 10 years since the Mochudi Band of Brothers started their journey together, and they are still a band of brothers.Katlego said, “We may be separated by distance but we are still there for each other.”22It is my prayer that we will accept the Lord’s invitation to be united with Him in our priesthood quorums so that each quorum might be a place of belonging, a place of gathering, a place that grows.Jesus Christ is our Savior, and this is His work.
I so testify in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
Almost three years ago, President Russell M. Nelson invited all youth of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints “to enlist in the Lord’s youth battalion to help gather Israel” on both sides of the veil.
He said, “That gathering is the most important thing taking place on earth today.”1 I am absolutely sure you youth can do this—and do it very well—because of (1) something about your identity and (2) an enormous power within you.Forty-one years ago, two missionaries from our Church felt led to a house in New Jersey, in the United States.
In time, miraculously, both parents and all 10 children were baptized.
In the prophet’s words, they “let God prevail”2 in their lives.
I should say “our lives.” I was the third child.
I was 17 years old when I decided to make a permanent covenant to follow Jesus Christ.
But guess what else I decided?
I would not serve a full-time mission.
That was too much.
And this could not be expected of me, right?
I was a brand-new Church member.
I had no money.
Besides, although I had just graduated from the toughest high school in nearby West Philadelphia and faced down some dangerous challenges, I was secretly terrified of leaving home for two whole years.Your True IdentityBut I had just learned that I and all of humanity had lived with our Heavenly Father as His spirit sons and daughters before our birth.
Others needed to know, as I knew, that He longed for all His children to enjoy eternal life with Him.
So, before anyone was on earth, He presented all with His perfect plan of salvation and happiness, with Jesus Christ as our Savior.
Tragically, Satan opposed God’s plan.3 According to the book of Revelation, “there was war in heaven”!4 Satan cunningly deceived a third part of Heavenly Father’s spirit children into letting him prevail instead of God.5 But not you!
The Apostle John saw that you overcame Satan “by the word of [your] testimony.”6Knowing my true identity, helped by my patriarchal blessing, gave me the courage and faith to accept President Spencer W. Kimball’s invitation to gather Israel.7 It will be the same for you, dear friends.
Knowing you overcame Satan by the word of your testimony before will help you love, share, and invite8 now and always—to invite others to come and see, come and help, and come and belong, as that same war for the souls of God’s children rages on.The Powerful Faith within YouWhat about the enormous power within you?
Think of this: you shouted for joy9 to come to a fallen world where all would face physical and spiritual death.
We would never be able to overcome either on our own.
We would suffer from not only our own sins but others’ sins too.
Humanity would experience virtually every imaginable type of brokenness and disappointment10—all with a veil of forgetfulness over our minds and the world’s worst enemy continuing to target and tempt us.
All hope for returning resurrected and clean to God’s holy presence rested entirely upon one Being keeping His promise.11What empowered you to go forward?
President Henry B. Eyring taught, “It took faith in Jesus Christ to sustain the plan of happiness and Jesus Christ’s place in it when you knew so little of the challenges that you would face in mortality.”12 When Jesus Christ promised He would come into mortality and give His life to gather13 and save us, you did not simply believe Him.
You “noble spirits”14 had such “exceedingly great faith” that you saw His promise as sure.15 He could not lie, so you saw Him as if He had already shed His blood for you, long before He was born.16In John’s symbolic words, you “overcame [Satan] by the blood of the Lamb.”17 President Dallin H. Oaks taught that in that world “[you] saw the end from the beginning.”18Suppose one day before you leave for school, one of your parents makes a true promise that you can have your favorite food when you return home!
You are excited!
While in school you imagine eating that food, and you can already taste it.
Naturally, you share your good news with others.
Looking forward to going home makes you so happy that the tests and challenges of school seem light.
Nothing can take away your joy or make you doubt because of how sure the promise is!
Similarly, before you noble spirits were born, you learned to see Christ’s promises in this sure way, and you tasted of His salvation.19 Your great faith is like muscles that get stronger and bigger the more you exercise them, but they are already inside you.How can you awaken your giant faith in Christ and use it to gather Israel now and triumph over Satan again?
By relearning to look forward and see with that same certainty the Lord’s promise to gather and save today.
He mainly uses the Book of Mormon and His prophets to teach us how.
Long before Christ, the Nephite “prophets, and … priests, and … teachers … [persuaded the people] to look forward unto the Messiah, and believe in him to come as though he already was.”20 The prophet Abinadi taught, “And now if Christ had not come into the world, speaking of things to come as though they had already come, there could have been no redemption.”21 Like Alma, Abinadi “look[ed] forward with an eye of faith”22 and saw God’s sure promise of salvation as already fulfilled.
They “overcame [Satan] by the blood of the Lamb, and … the word of their testimony” long before Christ was born, just as you did.
And the Lord gave them power to invite and gather Israel.
He will do the same for you as you look forward in faith, see Israel gathered—globally and in your own “circles”23—and invite all!Hundreds of missionaries built upon their powerful premortal faith in Christ by envisioning those they contacted or taught dressed in baptismal and temple clothing.
In a talk titled “Begin with the End in Mind,”24 President Nelson shared a personal example of doing this and instructed mission leaders to teach our missionaries to do the same.
Knowing they exercised this great faith in Jesus Christ in the premortal world immensely helped our dear missionaries “hear Him”25 and activate their enormous faith to gather Israel as the Lord promised.Of course, imagining lies harms faith.26 My friends, intentionally envisioning or viewing things that conflict with who you really are, especially pornography, will weaken your faith in Christ and, without repentance, could destroy it.
Please use your imaginations to increase faith in Christ, not ruin it.The Children and Youth ProgramThe Children and Youth program is a prophetic tool to help you youth power up your great faith.
President Oaks taught, “This program is designed to help you become more like our Savior in four areas: spiritual, social, physical, and intellectual.”27 As you youth lead—lead—in living the gospel, caring for others, inviting all to receive the gospel, uniting families for eternity, and organizing fun activities,28 the great faith in Christ you had in the premortal life will resurface and empower you to do His work in this life!Also, personal goals, “especially short-term goals,”29 help you reignite your powerful faith.
When you set a good goal, you are looking forward, as you did before, and seeing what your Heavenly Father wants you or another to become.30 Then you plan and work hard to achieve it.
Elder Quentin L. Cook taught, “Never underestimate the importance of planning, setting goals … , and [inviting others]—all with an eye of faith.”31The choice is yours!
The Lord said of you, “The power [to choose] is in them.”32 Elder Neil L. Andersen explained, “Your faith will grow not by chance, but by choice.”33 He also said, “[Any] honest questions [you may have] … will be settled with patience and an eye of faith.”34I testify that (1) your true identity and (2) the enormous power of faith in Christ within you will enable you to “help prepare the world for the Savior’s return by inviting all to come unto Christ and receive the blessings of His Atonement.”35 May we all share the joy of the Book of Mormon’s sure promise:“The righteous that hearken unto the … prophets, and … look forward unto Christ with steadfastness … notwithstanding all persecution … shall not perish.“But [Christ] … shall heal them, and they shall have peace with him.”36In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
Sisters, it is such a joy to be with you.Imagine someone going to a market to purchase an item.
If she pays the cashier more than the item is worth, the cashier will give her change.King Benjamin taught his people in ancient America of the tremendous blessings we receive from our Savior, Jesus Christ.
He created the heavens, the earth, and all the beauty we enjoy.1 Through His loving Atonement, He provides a way for us to be redeemed from sin and death.2 As we show our gratitude to Him by diligently living His commandments, He immediately blesses us, leaving us always in His debt.He gives us much, much more than the value of what we can ever return to Him.
So, what can we give to Him, who paid the incalculable price for our sins?
We can give Him change.
We can give Him our change.
It may be a change of thought, a change in habit, or a change in the direction we are headed.
In return for His priceless payment for each of us, the Lord asks us for a change of heart.
The change He requests from us is not for His benefit but for ours.
So, unlike the purchaser at the market who would take back the change we offer, our gracious Savior beckons us to keep the change.After hearing the words spoken by King Benjamin, his people cried out, declaring that their hearts had changed, saying, “Because of the Spirit of the Lord Omnipotent, which has wrought a mighty change in us, … we have no more disposition to do evil, but to do good continually.”3 The scriptures do not say that they immediately became perfect; rather, their desire to change compelled them to action.
Their change of heart meant putting off the natural man or woman and yielding to the Spirit as they strove to become more like Jesus Christ.President Henry B. Eyring teaches: “True conversion depends on seeking freely in faith, with great effort and some pain.
Then it is the Lord who can grant … the miracle of cleansing and change.”4 Combining our effort with the Savior’s ability to change us, we become new creatures.When I was younger, I visualized myself walking along an upward, vertical path toward my goal of eternal life.
Each time I did or said something wrong, I felt myself sliding down the path, only to start my journey all over again.
It was like landing on that one square in the children’s game Chutes and Ladders that slides you down from the top of the board back to the beginning of the game!
It was discouraging!
But as I began to understand the doctrine of Christ5 and how to apply it daily in my life, I found hope.Jesus Christ has given us a continuous pattern for change.
He invites us to exercise faith in Him, which inspires us to repent—“which faith and repentance bringeth a change of heart.”6 As we repent and turn our hearts to Him, we gain a greater desire to make and live sacred covenants.
We endure to the end by continuing to apply these principles throughout our lives and inviting the Lord to change us.
Enduring to the end means changing to the end.
I now understand that I am not starting over with each failed attempt, but that with each try, I am continuing my process of change.There is an inspired phrase in the Young Women theme that states, “I cherish the gift of repentance and seek to improve each day.”7 I pray that we do cherish this beautiful gift and that we are intentional in seeking change.
Sometimes the changes we need to make are associated with serious sin.
But most often, we strive to refine our character to align ourselves with the attributes of Jesus Christ.
Our daily choices will either help or hinder our progress.
Small but steady, deliberate changes will help us improve.
Do not become discouraged.
Change is a lifelong process.
I am grateful that in our struggles to change, the Lord is patient with us.Through Jesus Christ, we are given the strength to make lasting changes.
As we humbly turn to Him, He will increase our capacity to change.In addition to the transforming power of our Savior’s Atonement, the Holy Ghost will support and guide us as we put forth our effort.
He can even help us know what changes we need to make.
We can also find help and encouragement through priesthood blessings, prayer, fasting, and attending the temple.Likewise, trusted family members, leaders, and friends can be helpful in our efforts to change.
When I was eight years old, my older brother, Lee, and I would spend time with our friends playing in the branches of a neighborhood tree.
We loved being together in the fellowship of our friends in the shade of that tree.
One day, Lee fell out of the tree and broke his arm.
Having a broken arm made it hard for him to climb the tree by himself.
But life in the tree just wasn’t the same without him there.
So some of us steadied him from behind while others pulled on his good arm, and without too much effort, Lee was back in the tree.
His arm was still broken, but he was with us again enjoying our friendship as he healed.I have often thought about my experience of playing in the tree as being a type of our activity in the gospel of Jesus Christ.
In the shade of gospel branches, we enjoy many blessings associated with our covenants.
Some may have fallen from the safety of their covenants and need our help climbing back into the security of gospel branches.
It can be difficult for them to come back on their own.
Can we gently tug a little here and hoist up a little there to help them heal while they enjoy our friendship?If you are suffering an injury from a fall, please allow others to help you return to your covenants and the blessings they offer.
The Savior can help you heal and change while surrounded by those who love you.I occasionally run into friends whom I haven’t seen for many years.
Sometimes they say, “You haven’t changed at all!” Each time I hear that, I cringe a little, because I hope I have changed over the years.
I hope I have changed since yesterday!
I hope I am a little kinder, less judgmental, and more compassionate.
I hope I am quicker to respond to the needs of others, and I hope I am just a little bit more patient.I love hiking in the mountains near my home.
Often, I get a little rock in my shoe as I walk along the trail.
Eventually, I stop and shake out my shoe.
But it astounds me how long I allow myself to hike in pain before I stop and rid myself of the irritant.As we travel the covenant path, sometimes we pick up stones in our shoes in the form of poor habits, sins, or bad attitudes.
The quicker we shake them from our lives, the more joyful our mortal journey will be.Maintaining change takes effort.
I cannot imagine stopping along the trail only to put back in my shoe the annoying and painful pebble I just removed.
I would not want to do that any more than a beautiful butterfly would choose to return to her cocoon.I testify that because of Jesus Christ, we can change.
We can adjust our habits, alter our thoughts, and refine our character to become more like Him.
And with His help, we can keep the change.
In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
This cookie made of phyllo dough and pistachio nuts is a thank-you.
It was made by the Kadado family who, for decades, owned three bakeries in Damascus, Syria.
When war came, a blockade stopped food and supplies from reaching their part of the city.
The Kadados began to starve.
At the height of this desperate situation, Latter-day Saint Charities and some very courageous staff at Rahma Worldwide began serving a daily hot meal, along with milk for the little children.
After a difficult time, the family began their life—as well as their bakery—once again in a new country.Recently, a box of cookies arrived at the Church offices with the following message: “For more than two months, we managed to get food from the Rahma–Latter-day Saint [Charities] kitchen.
Without it we would [have] starve[d] to death.
Please accept this … sample from my shop as a small token of thanks.
I ask God the Almighty to bless you … in everything you do.”1A cookie of gratitude and remembrance.
It is meant for you.
To all who prayed after watching a story on the news, to all who volunteered when it was not convenient or who kindly donated money to the humanitarian fund trusting it would do some good, thank you.Divine Responsibility to Care for the PoorThe Church of Jesus Christ is under divine mandate to care for the poor.2 It is one of the pillars of the work of salvation and exaltation.3 What was true during the days of Alma is certainly true for us: “And thus, in their prosperous circumstances, they did not send away any who were naked, or that were hungry, or that were athirst, or that were sick, or that had not been nourished; and they did not set their hearts upon riches; therefore they were liberal to all, both old and young, both bond and free, both male and female, whether out of the church or in the church, having no respect to persons as to those who stood in need.”4The Church responds to this charge in a wide variety of ways, including:the ministering we do through Relief Society, priesthood quorums, and classes;fasting and the use of fast offerings;welfare farms and canneries;welcome centers for immigrants;outreach for those in prison;Church humanitarian efforts;and the JustServe app, where it’s available, that matches volunteers with service opportunities.These are all ways, organized through the priesthood, where small efforts collectively make a big impact, magnifying the many individual things we do as disciples of Jesus Christ.Prophets Have Stewardship for the Whole EarthProphets have charge for the whole earth, not just for members of the Church.
I can report from my own experience how personally and devotedly the First Presidency takes that charge.
As needs grow, the First Presidency has charged us to increase our humanitarian outreach in a significant way.
They are interested in the largest trends and the smallest details.Recently, we brought to them one of the protective medical gowns that Beehive Clothing sewed for hospitals to use during the pandemic.
As a medical doctor, President Russell M. Nelson was highly interested.
He didn’t want to just see it.
He wanted to try it on—check the cuffs and the length and the way it tied in the back.
He told us later, with emotion in his voice, “When you meet with people on your assignments, thank them for their fasting, their offerings, and their ministering in the name of the Lord.”Humanitarian ReportAt President Nelson’s direction, I am reporting back to you about how The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is responding to hurricanes, earthquakes, refugee displacement—and even a pandemic—thanks to the kindness of the Latter-day Saints and many friends.
While the more than 1,500 COVID-19 projects were certainly the largest focus of the Church’s relief over the last 18 months, the Church also responded to 933 natural disasters and refugee crises in 108 countries.
But statistics don’t tell the whole story.
Let me share four brief examples to illustrate the smallest taste of what is being done.South African COVID ReliefSixteen-year-old Dieke Mphuti of Welkom, South Africa, lost her parents years ago, leaving her to care for three younger siblings on her own.
It was always daunting for her to find enough food, but COVID supply shortages and quarantines made it almost impossible.
They were often hungry, scraping by only with the generosity of neighbors.On a sunny day in August 2020, Dieke was surprised by a knock at her door.
She opened it to find two strangers—one a Church representative from the area office in Johannesburg and the other an official from South Africa’s Department of Social Development.The two organizations had teamed up to bring food to at-risk households.
Relief washed over Dieke as she glimpsed the pile of cornmeal and other food staples, purchased with Church humanitarian funds.
These would help her to sustain her family for several weeks until a government aid package could begin to take effect for her.Dieke’s story is one of thousands of such experiences taking place across the world during the COVID pandemic thanks to your consecrated contributions.Afghan Relief at RamsteinWe have all seen recent images in the news: thousands of evacuees being flown from Afghanistan.
Many arrived at air bases or other temporary locations in Qatar, the United States, Germany, and Spain before continuing to their final destinations.
Their needs were immediate, and the Church responded with supplies and volunteers.
At Ramstein Air Base in Germany, the Church provided large donations of diapers, baby formula, food, and shoes.Some of the Relief Society sisters noticed that many Afghan women were using their husbands’ shirts to cover their heads because their traditional head coverings had been ripped off in the frenzy at the Kabul airport.
In an act of friendship that crossed any religious or cultural boundaries, the sisters of the Ramstein First Ward gathered to sew traditional Muslim clothing for Afghan women.
Sister Bethani Halls said, “We heard that women were in need of prayer garments, and we are sewing so that they can be [comfortable] for prayer.”5Haitian Earthquake ReliefThis next example shows you do not have to be wealthy or old to be an instrument for good.
Eighteen-year-old Marie “Djadjou” Jacques is from the Cavaillon Branch in Haiti.
When the devastating earthquake struck near her town in August, her family’s house was one of tens of thousands of buildings that collapsed.
It’s almost impossible to imagine the despair of losing your home.
But rather than giving in to that despair, Djadjou—incredibly—turned outward.Associated PressShe saw an elderly neighbor struggling and began taking care of her.
She helped others clear away debris.
Despite her exhaustion, she joined other Church members to distribute food and hygiene kits to others.
Djadjou’s story is just one of many powerful examples of service carried out by youth and young adults as they strive to follow the example of Jesus Christ.German Flood ReliefOnly a few weeks before the earthquake, another group of young adults was giving similar service across the Atlantic.
The floods that swept through western Europe in July were the most severe in decades.When the waters finally receded, one shopkeeper in the riverside district of Ahrweiler, Germany, surveyed the damage and was utterly overwhelmed.
This humble man, a devout Catholic, whispered a prayer that God might send someone to help him.
The very next morning, President Dan Hammon of the Germany Frankfurt Mission arrived on the street with a small band of missionaries wearing yellow Helping Hands vests.
The water had reached up to 10 feet (3 m) on the shopkeeper’s walls, leaving behind a deep layer of mud.
The volunteers shoveled out the mud, removed the carpet and drywall, and piled everything in the street for removal.
The overjoyed shopkeeper worked alongside them for hours, amazed that the Lord had sent a group of His servants to answer his prayer—and within 24 hours!6“Well, I Pray That He’ll Use Us”Speaking of the Church’s humanitarian efforts, Elder Jeffrey R. Holland once remarked: “Prayers are answered … most of the time … by God using other people.
Well, I pray that He’ll use us.
I pray that we’ll be the answer to people’s prayers.”7Brothers and sisters, through your ministry, donations, time, and love, you have been the answer to so many prayers.
And yet there is so much more to do.
As baptized members of the Church, we are under covenant to care for those in need.
Our individual efforts don’t necessarily require money or faraway locations;8 they do require the guidance of the Holy Spirit and a willing heart to say to the Lord, “Here am I; send me.”9The Acceptable Year of the LordLuke 4 records that Jesus came to Nazareth, where He had been brought up, and stood up in the synagogue to read.
This was near the beginning of His mortal ministry, and He quoted a passage from the book of Isaiah:“The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he hath anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor; he hath sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to preach deliverance to the captives, and recovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty them that are bruised,“To preach the acceptable year of the Lord.
…“… This day is this scripture fulfilled in your ears.”10I testify that the scripture is being fulfilled in our own time as well.
I testify Jesus Christ is come to heal the brokenhearted.
His gospel is to recover sight to the blind.
His Church is to preach deliverance to the captive, and His disciples across the world are striving to set at liberty them that are bruised.Let me conclude by repeating the question Jesus asked His Apostle Simon Peter: “Do you love me?”11 The essence of the gospel is contained in how we answer that question for ourselves and “feed [His] sheep.”12 With great reverence and love for Jesus Christ, our Master, I invite each of us to be a part of His magnificent ministry, and I pray He’ll use us.
In the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.
As parents excitedly await the birth of a child, they have the responsibility of choosing a name for their new baby.
Perhaps when you were born, you received a name that was passed down in your family for generations.
Or maybe the name you were given was popular in the year or area in which you were born.The prophet Helaman and his wife gave meaningful family names to their infant sons Nephi and Lehi.
Helaman later told his sons:“I have given unto you the names of our first parents … that when you remember your names ye may remember them; and when ye remember them ye may remember their works … that it is said, and also written, that they were good.“Therefore, my sons, I would that ye should do that which is good.”1Nephi’s and Lehi’s names helped them remember the good works of their ancestors and encouraged them to do good as well.Sisters, no matter where we live, what language we speak, or whether we are 8 years old or 108, we all share a special name that has these same purposes.“For as many of [us] as have been baptized into Christ have put on Christ … for [we] are all one in Christ Jesus.”2As members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, “we first pledge[d] our willingness to take upon us the name of Christ … by the ordinance of baptism.”3 Through this covenant, we promised to always remember Him, keep His commandments, and serve others.
Our willingness to keep this covenant is renewed each Sabbath day when we partake of the sacrament and rejoice once again in the blessing of “walk[ing] in newness of life.”4The name we were given at birth reflects our individual identity and gives us belonging within our earthly families.
However, when we were “born again” at baptism, our understanding of who we are was enlarged.
“Because of the covenant which ye have made ye shall be called the children of Christ, … for behold, … he hath spiritually begotten you; for ye say that your hearts are changed through faith on his name; therefore, ye are born of him.”5Thus, with covenant identity and belonging, we are called by the name of Jesus Christ.
And “there [is] no other name given nor any other way nor means whereby salvation can come unto the children of men, only in and through the name of Christ, the Lord Omnipotent.”6The name of Jesus was known long before His birth.
To King Benjamin, an angel prophesied, “And he shall be called Jesus Christ, the Son of God, … and his mother shall be called Mary.”7 His work of “redeeming love”8 was also made known to God’s children whenever the gospel has been on the earth, from the days of Adam and Eve until our present day, so they could “know to what source they may look for a remission of their sins.”9Last year, President Russell M. Nelson extended “a prophetic plea” to the sisters “to shape the future by helping to gather scattered Israel.” He invited us to read the Book of Mormon and “mark each verse that speaks of or refers to the Savior.” He asked that we “be intentional about talking of Christ, rejoicing in Christ, and preaching of Christ with [our family] and friends.” Perhaps you have begun to recognize the fruits of his promise that “you and they will be drawn closer to the Savior.
… And changes, even miracles, will begin to happen.”10Our promise to always remember the Savior gives us strength to stand for truth and righteousness—whether we are in a large crowd or in our solitary places, where no one knows our actions except for God.
When we remember Him and His name we bear, we have no place for self-degrading comparisons or overbearing judgments.
With our eyes on the Savior, we see ourselves for who we really are—a cherished child of God.Our covenant remembering quiets worldly worries, turns self-doubt into courage, and gives hope in times of trial.And when we stumble and fall in our progression along the covenant path, we have only to remember His name and His loving-kindness toward us.
“For he has all power, all wisdom, and all understanding; he comprehendeth all things, and he is a merciful Being … to those who will repent and believe on his name.”11 Surely there is no sweeter sound than the name of Jesus to all those who, with a broken heart and a contrite spirit, seek to “do better and be better.”12President Nelson taught: “The day is gone when you can be a quiet and comfortable Christian.
Your religion is not just about showing up for church on Sunday.
It is about showing up as a true disciple from Sunday morning through Saturday night.
… There is no such thing as a ‘part-time’ disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ.”13Our willingness to take upon us the name of Christ is more than a formal exchange of words.
It is not a passive promise or a cultural contrivance.
It is not a rite of passage or a name tag that we wear.
It is not a saying that we simply place on a shelf or hang on a wall.
His is a name that is “put on,”14 written in our hearts, and “engraven upon [our] countenances.”15The Savior’s atoning sacrifice should be remembered, always, through our thoughts, actions, and interactions with others.
Not only does He remember our names, but He remembers us always.
The Savior declared:“For can a woman forget her sucking child, that she should not have compassion on the son of her womb?
Yea, they may forget, yet will I not forget thee, O house of Israel.“Behold, I have graven thee upon the palms of my hands.”16President George Albert Smith taught, “Honor the names that you bear, because some day you will have the privilege and the obligation of reporting … to your Father in heaven … what you have done with [those names].”17Like the carefully chosen names of Nephi and Lehi, can it be said and written of us that we are true disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ?
Do we honor the name of Jesus Christ that we have willingly taken upon ourselves?
Are we both “a minister and a witness”18 of His loving-kindness and His redeeming power?Not long ago, I was listening to the Book of Mormon.
In the last chapter of 2 Nephi, I heard Nephi say something that I had never read the same way before.
All throughout his record, he teaches and testifies of the “Redeemer,” the “Holy One of Israel,” the “Lamb of God,” and the “Messiah.” But as he closed his account, I heard him say these words: “I glory in plainness; I glory in truth; I glory in my Jesus, for he hath redeemed my soul.”19 When I heard these words, my heart rejoiced and I had to listen over and over again.
I recognized and responded to that verse just as I recognize and respond to my own name.The Lord has said, “Yea, blessed is this people who are willing to bear my name; for in my name shall they be called; and they are mine.”20As members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, may we “gladly [take upon us] the name of Christ”21 by honoring His name with love, devotion, and good works.
I testify that He is “the Lamb of God, yea, even the Son of the Eternal Father.”22 In the name of His holy child, Jesus Christ, amen.
As Jesus walked in a street near Capernaum1 with a great crowd of people around Him, a woman afflicted with a serious condition for 12 years reached out and touched the hem of His garment.
Immediately she was healed.2The scriptures record that Jesus, perceiving “that [power had] gone out of [Him],”3 “turned him about in the press”4 and “looked … to see her that had done this thing.”5 “When the woman saw that she was not hid,”6 she “fell down before him, and told him all the truth.”7Jesus said unto her, “Daughter, be of good comfort: thy faith hath made thee whole; go in peace.”8Jesus Christ saved the woman.
She was healed physically, but when Jesus turned to see her, she declared her faith in Him and He healed her heart.9 He spoke to her with love, assured her of His approval, and blessed her with His peace.10Brethren, as bearers of the holy priesthood, we are engaged in the work of salvation.
In the last year, the Lord has placed the leadership of this work squarely on the shoulders of the elders in Israel.11 We have an inspiring charge from the Lord—working with our sisters, we are to minister in a holier way, accelerate the gathering of Israel on both sides of the veil, establish our homes as sanctuaries of faith and gospel learning, and prepare the world for the Second Coming of Jesus Christ.12As in all things, the Savior has shown us the way: we need to look to and serve Jesus Christ as He looked to and served His Father.13 The Savior said it this way to the Prophet Joseph:“Look unto me in every thought; doubt not, fear not.“Behold the wounds which pierced my side, and also the prints of the nails in my hands and feet; be faithful, keep my commandments, and ye shall inherit the kingdom of heaven.”14In the premortal realm, Jesus promised His Father that He would do His Father’s will and be our Savior and Redeemer.
When His Father asked, “Whom shall I send?”15 Jesus answered:“Here am I, send me.”16“Father, thy will be done, and the glory be thine forever.”17All through His mortal life, Jesus lived that promise.
In humility, meekness, and love, He taught His Father’s doctrine and did His Father’s work with the power and authority His Father had given Him.18Jesus gave His heart to His Father.
He said:“I love the Father.”19“I do always those things that please him.”20“I came … not to do mine own will, but the will of [the Father, who] sent me.”21In His agony in Gethsemane, He prayed, “Nevertheless not my will, but thine, be done.”22When the Lord calls the elders in Israel to “look unto me in every thought” and “behold the wounds” in His resurrected body, it is a call to turn away from sin and the world and to turn to Him and love and obey Him.
It is a call to teach His doctrine and do His work in His way.
It is, therefore, a call to trust Him completely, surrender our will and yield our hearts to Him, and through His redeeming power become like Him.23Brethren, if we look unto Jesus Christ, He will bless us to be His elders in Israel—humble, meek, submissive, full of His love.24 And we will bring the joy and blessings of His gospel and His Church to our families and our brothers and sisters on both sides of the veil.President Russell M. Nelson has called us to look unto Jesus Christ in just this way: “There is nothing easy or automatic about becoming such powerful disciples.
Our focus must be riveted on the Savior and His gospel.
It is mentally rigorous to strive to look unto Him in every thought.
But when we do, our doubts and fears flee.”25Rivet is a great word.
It means to fasten firmly, to attract and hold completely.26 We rivet our focus on Jesus Christ and His gospel by living our covenants.When we live our covenants, they influence everything we say and do.
We live a covenant life27 full of simple, everyday acts of faith that focus us on Jesus Christ: prayer from the heart in His name, feasting on His word, turning to Him to repent of our sins, keeping His commandments, partaking of the sacrament and keeping His Sabbath holy, worshipping in His holy temple as often as we can, and exercising His holy priesthood to serve God’s children.These acts of covenant devotion open our hearts and minds to the redeeming power of the Savior and the sanctifying influence of the Holy Ghost.
Line upon line, the Savior changes our very nature, we become more deeply converted unto Him, and our covenants come alive in our hearts.28The promises we make to our Heavenly Father become rock-solid commitments, our deepest desires.
Heavenly Father’s promises to us fill us with gratitude and joy.29 Our covenants cease to be rules we follow and become beloved principles that inspire and guide us and rivet our focus on Jesus Christ.30These acts of devotion are available to all, young and old.
You young men who hold the holy Aaronic Priesthood, everything I have said tonight applies to you.
I thank God for you.
You make sacred ordinances and covenants available to millions of Latter-day Saints every week.
When you prepare, bless, or pass the sacrament; minister; baptize in the temple; invite a friend to an activity; or rescue a member of your quorum, you are doing the work of salvation.
You too can look unto Jesus Christ and live your covenants every day.
I promise you that if you do, you will be trusted servants of the Lord now and, in a coming day, mighty elders in Israel.Brethren, I know that all of this may sound daunting.
But please remember these words of the Savior: “I am not alone, because the Father is with me.”31 So it is with us.
We are not alone.
The Lord Jesus Christ and our Heavenly Father love us, and They are with us.32 Because Jesus looked to His Father and completed the great atoning sacrifice, we can look to Jesus Christ with assurance that He will help us.None of us are perfect.
Sometimes we get stuck.
We get distracted or discouraged.
We stumble.
But if we look to Jesus Christ with a repentant heart, He will lift us up, cleanse us from sin, forgive us, and heal our hearts.
He is patient and kind; His redeeming love never ends and never fails.33 He will help us live our covenants and magnify our calling as elders in Israel.And the Father will bless us with all things required to accomplish His purposes—“things … both in heaven and on the earth, the life and the light, the Spirit and the power, sent forth by the will of the Father through Jesus Christ, his Son.”34When divine light and power flow into our lives, three miraculous things happen:First, we can see!
Through revelation we begin to see as Jesus saw the woman: beyond the surface into the heart.35 As we see as Jesus sees, He blesses us to love those we serve with His love.
With His help, those we serve will see the Savior and feel His love.36Second, we have priesthood power!
We have the authority and the power to act in the name of Jesus Christ “to bless, guide, protect, strengthen, and heal others” and bring miracles to those we love and keep our marriages and families safe.37Third, Jesus Christ goes with us!
Where we go, He goes.
When we teach, He teaches.
When we comfort, He comforts.
When we bless, He blesses.38Brethren, have we not cause to rejoice?
We do!
We hold the holy priesthood of God.
As we look unto Jesus Christ, live our covenants, and rivet our focus on Him, we will join with our sisters and minister in a holier way, gather scattered Israel on both sides of the veil, strengthen and seal our families, and prepare the world for the Second Coming of the Lord Jesus Christ.
It will happen.
I so testify.I close with this prayer from my heart, that all of us, every one, will look unto Jesus Christ in every thought.
Doubt not.
Fear not.
In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
My dear sisters, it is a joy to be with you!
We are witnessing an outpouring of revelation that is both soul stretching and exhilarating.As we begin, I would like to introduce you to some friends; they are young women unique in talent, custom, and individual and family circumstance.
Each of them, like all of you, has captured my heart.First, meet Bella.
She stands strong as the only young woman in her branch in Iceland.Meet devoted Josephine from Africa, who has recommitted to studying the Book of Mormon every day.
She is discovering the power and the blessings that come from this simple, faithful act.And finally, meet my dear friend Ashtyn, an extraordinary young woman who passed away after a six-year battle with cancer.
Her strong testimony of the Atonement of Jesus Christ still echoes in my heart.You are all remarkable young women.
You are unique, each with your own gifts and experiences yet alike in a very important and eternal way.You are literally the spirit daughters of Heavenly Parents, and nothing can separate you from Their love and the love of your Savior.1 As you draw closer to Him, even taking the smallest baby steps forward, you will discover the lasting peace that settles into your soul as a faithful disciple of our Savior, Jesus Christ.President Russell M. Nelson, our dearly beloved prophet, has asked that I share some inspired changes that will help you “develop [your] sacred personal potential”2 and increase your righteous influence.
I will address four areas of adjustment tonight.Young Women ThemeFirst, at the heart of all we do in Young Women is our desire to help you gain unshakable faith in the Lord Jesus Christ3 and a sure knowledge of your divine identity as a daughter of God.Tonight, I would like to announce a revision to the Young Women theme.
I pray you will feel the Holy Ghost testify of the truth of these words as I say the new theme:I am a beloved daughter of heavenly parents,4 with a divine nature and eternal destiny.5As a disciple of Jesus Christ,6 I strive to become like Him.7 I seek and act upon personal revelation8 and minister to others in His holy name.9I will stand as a witness of God at all times and in all things and in all places.10As I strive to qualify for exaltation,11 I cherish the gift of repentance12 and seek to improve each day.13 With faith,14 I will strengthen my home and family,15 make and keep sacred covenants,16 and receive the ordinances17 and blessings of the holy temple.18Notice the shift from “we” to “I.” These truths apply to you individually.
You are a beloved daughter of Heavenly Parents.
You are a covenant disciple of our Savior, Jesus Christ.
I invite you to study and ponder these words.
I know that as you do, you will gain a testimony of their truthfulness.
Understanding these truths will change the way you face challenges.
Knowing your identity and purpose will help you align your will with the Savior’s.Peace and guidance will be yours as you follow Jesus Christ.Young Women ClassesThe second area of change affects Young Women classes.
Elder Neal A. Maxwell said, “So often what people need so much is to be sheltered from the storms of life in the sanctuary of belonging.”19 Our classes must be sanctuaries from the storms, secure places of love and belonging.
In an effort to build greater unity, strengthen friendships, and increase that feeling of belonging within Young Women, we are making some adjustments to class structure.For over 100 years, young women have been divided into three classes.
Beginning immediately, we invite Young Women leaders and bishops to prayerfully consider the needs of each young woman and organize them according to the ward’s specific circumstances.
Here are some examples of how this might look.If you have few young women, you could have one Young Women class with everyone meeting together.Perhaps you have a large group of young women age 12 and then a small group of young women who are older.
You may decide to have two classes: Young Women 12 and Young Women 13–18.Or if you have a large ward with 60 young women attending, you may have six classes, one for each age, organized by year.However your classes are organized, you young women are vital in building unity.
Be a light to those around you.
Be the source of love and care you are hoping to receive from others.
With a prayer in your heart, continue to reach out and be that force for good.
As you do so, your life will be filled with kindness.
You will have a better feeling toward others and will begin to see their goodness in return.Young Women Class NamesThird, with this new class organization, all classes will be referred to by the unifying name of “Young Women.”20 We will retire the names “Beehive,” “Mia Maid,” and “Laurel.”Strengthen Class PresidenciesThe final area I wish to address is the importance of class presidencies.
No matter how Young Women classes are organized, every class should have a class presidency!21 It is by divine design that young women are called to lead in their youth.The role and purpose of class presidencies have been strengthened and more clearly defined.
The work of salvation is one of these significant responsibilities, particularly in the areas of ministering, missionary work, activation, and temple and family history work.22 Yes, this is how we gather Israel23—a glorious work for all young women as members of the Lord’s youth battalion.As you know, at every level of the Church, the Lord calls presidencies to lead His people.
Young women, being a member of a class presidency may be your first opportunity to participate in this inspired pattern of leadership.
Adult leaders, make the calling of class presidencies a priority and then lead side-by-side with them, mentoring and guiding them so they can succeed.24 Whatever level of leadership experience a class presidency has, start where they are and help them develop the skills and confidence that will bless them as leaders.
Stay close to them, but don’t take over.
The Spirit will guide you as you guide them.To illustrate the vital role of parents and leaders as mentors, let me tell you a story.
Chloe was called to serve as a class president.
Her wise priesthood leader encouraged her to seek the Lord’s help in recommending names for her presidency.
Chloe prayed and received inspiration for whom to recommend as her counselors rather quickly.
As she continued to ponder and pray about a secretary, the Spirit repeatedly drew her focus to a young woman who surprised her—someone who rarely came to church or activities.Feeling a little insecure with the prompting, Chloe talked with her mother, who explained that one of the ways we can receive revelation is through recurring thoughts.
With renewed confidence, Chloe felt she could recommend this young woman.
The bishop extended the call, and the young woman accepted.
After being set apart, this sweet secretary said, “You know, I’ve never felt as though I had a place or was needed anywhere.
I didn’t feel I fit in.
But with this calling, I feel as though Heavenly Father has a purpose and a place for me.” As Chloe and her mother left the meeting, Chloe turned to her mother and said, with tears in her eyes, “Revelation is real!
Revelation really works!”Class presidencies, you have been called of God and trusted to lead a group of His daughters.
“The Lord knows you.
… He chose you.”25 You have been set apart by one who has priesthood authority; this means as you perform the duties of your calling, you exercise priesthood authority.
You have an important work to do.
Be sensitive to and act on the promptings of the Holy Ghost.
As you do so, you can serve with confidence, for you do not serve alone!Class presidents, we need your wisdom, voice, and energy in the new ward youth council that Elder Quentin L. Cook announced today.
You are an essential part of the solution to meeting the needs of your brothers and sisters.26These changes in class organization and leadership may begin as soon as wards and branches are ready but should be in place by January 1, 2020.My dear sisters, I bear witness that these adjustments I have spoken of today are inspired direction from the Lord.
As we diligently implement these adjustments, may we never lose sight of our purpose: to strengthen our resolve to follow Jesus Christ and help others come unto Him.
I testify that this is His Church.
How grateful I am that He allows us to be a very important part of His sacred work.I pray that the same Spirit that has guided these adjustments will guide you as you press forward on the covenant path.
I so testify in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
My beloved brothers and sisters, I am grateful to be with you in this general conference of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
In his invitation to reflect on the way the Lord’s Restoration of His Church in this last dispensation has blessed us and our loved ones, President Russell M. Nelson promised that our experience would be not only memorable but unforgettable.My experience has been memorable, as I am sure yours has been.
Whether it will be unforgettable depends on each one of us.
That matters to me because the experience of preparing for this conference has changed me in a way that I want to last.
Let me explain.My preparation took me to the record of an event in the Restoration.
I had read about that event many times, but it had always been to me a report of an important meeting that involved Joseph Smith, the prophet of the Restoration.
But this time I saw in the account how the Lord leads us, His disciples, in His Church.
I saw what it means for us mortals to be led by the Savior of the world, the Creator—who knows all things, past, present, and future.
He teaches us step by step and guides us, never forcing.The meeting I’m describing was a pivotal moment in the Restoration.
It was a Sabbath-day meeting held on April 3, 1836, in the Kirtland Temple in Ohio, seven days after it was dedicated.
Joseph Smith described this great moment in the history of the world in a simple way.
Much of his account is recorded in Doctrine and Covenants section 110:“In the afternoon, I assisted the other Presidents in distributing the Lord’s Supper to the Church, receiving it from the Twelve, whose privilege it was to officiate at the sacred desk this day.
After having performed this service to my brethren, I retired to the pulpit, the veils being dropped, and bowed myself, with Oliver Cowdery, in solemn and silent prayer.
After rising from prayer, the following vision was opened to both of us.”1“The veil was taken from our minds, and the eyes of our understanding were opened.“We saw the Lord standing upon the breastwork of the pulpit, before us; and under his feet was a paved work of pure gold, in color like amber.“His eyes were as a flame of fire; the hair of his head was white like the pure snow; his countenance shone above the brightness of the sun; and his voice was as the sound of the rushing of great waters, even the voice of Jehovah, saying:“I am the first and the last; I am he who liveth, I am he who was slain; I am your advocate with the Father.“Behold, your sins are forgiven you; you are clean before me; therefore, lift up your heads and rejoice.“Let the hearts of your brethren rejoice, and let the hearts of all my people rejoice, who have, with their might, built this house to my name.“For behold, I have accepted this house, and my name shall be here; and I will manifest myself to my people in mercy in this house.“Yea, I will appear unto my servants, and speak unto them with mine own voice, if my people will keep my commandments, and do not pollute this holy house.“Yea the hearts of thousands and tens of thousands shall greatly rejoice in consequence of the blessings which shall be poured out, and the endowment with which my servants have been endowed in this house.“And the fame of this house shall spread to foreign lands; and this is the beginning of the blessing which shall be poured out upon the heads of my people.
Even so.
Amen.“After this vision closed, the heavens were again opened unto us; and Moses appeared before us, and committed unto us the keys of the gathering of Israel from the four parts of the earth, and the leading of the ten tribes from the land of the north.“After this, Elias appeared, and committed the dispensation of the gospel of Abraham, saying that in us and our seed all generations after us should be blessed.“After this vision had closed, another great and glorious vision burst upon us; for Elijah the prophet, who was taken to heaven without tasting death, stood before us, and said:“Behold, the time has fully come, which was spoken of by the mouth of Malachi—testifying that he [Elijah] should be sent, before the great and dreadful day of the Lord come—“To turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the children to the fathers, lest the whole earth be smitten with a curse—“Therefore, the keys of this dispensation are committed into your hands; and by this ye may know that the great and dreadful day of the Lord is near, even at the doors.”2Now, I had read that account many times.
The Holy Ghost had confirmed to me that the account was true.
But as I studied and prepared for this conference, I came to see more clearly the power of the Lord to lead in detail His disciples in His work.Seven years before Moses committed to Joseph the keys of the gathering of Israel in the Kirtland Temple, “Joseph learned from the title page of the Book of Mormon that its purpose was to ‘show unto the remnant of the house of Israel … that they may know the covenants of the Lord, that they are not cast off forever.’ In 1831, the Lord told Joseph that the gathering of Israel would commence in Kirtland, ‘And from thence [Kirtland], whosoever I will shall go forth among all nations … for Israel shall be saved, and I will lead them.’”3Although missionary work was needed to gather Israel, the Lord inspired His leaders to teach the Twelve, who became some of our early missionaries, “Remember you are not to go to other nations, till you receive your endowment.”4It seems that the Kirtland Temple was important to the Lord’s step-by-step plan for at least two reasons: First, Moses waited until the temple was completed to restore the keys of the gathering of Israel.
And second, President Joseph Fielding Smith taught that “the Lord commanded the Saints to build a temple [the Kirtland Temple] in which he could reveal the keys of authority and where the apostles could be endowed and prepared to prune his vineyard for the last time.”5 Although the temple endowment as we know it today wasn’t administered in the Kirtland Temple, in fulfillment of prophecy, preparatory temple ordinances began to be introduced there, along with an outpouring of spiritual manifestations which armed those called on missions with the promised endowment of “power from on high”6 that led to a great gathering through missionary service.After the keys of the gathering of Israel were committed to Joseph, the Lord inspired the Prophet to send out members of the Twelve on missions.
As I studied, it became clear to me that the Lord had prepared in detail the way for the Twelve to go on missions abroad where people had been prepared to believe and sustain them.
In time, thousands would, through them, be brought into the Lord’s restored Church.According to our records, it is estimated that between 7,500 and 8,000 were baptized during the two missions of the Twelve to the British Isles.
This laid the foundation for missionary work in Europe.
By the end of the 19th century, some 90,000 had gathered to America, with the most of these coming from the British Isles and Scandinavia.7 The Lord had inspired Joseph and those faithful missionaries who went to work to achieve a harvest that must have, at the time, seemed beyond them.
But the Lord, with His perfect foresight and preparation, made it possible.You remember the apparently simple and almost poetic language from section 110 of the Doctrine and Covenants:“Behold, the time has fully come, which was spoken of by the mouth of Malachi—testifying that he [Elijah] should be sent, before the great and dreadful day of the Lord come—“To turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the children to the fathers, lest the whole earth be smitten with a curse—“Therefore, the keys of this dispensation are committed into your hands; and by this ye may know that the great and dreadful day of the Lord is near, even at the doors.”8I testify that the Lord saw far into the future and how He would lead us to help Him accomplish His purposes in the last days.While I was serving in the Presiding Bishopric many years ago, I was charged with overseeing the design and development group that created what we named FamilySearch.
I am careful to say that I “oversaw” its creation rather than saying I “directed” it.
Many brilliant people left careers and came to build what the Lord wanted.The First Presidency had set a goal of reducing the duplication of ordinances.
Their major concern was our being unable to know whether a person’s ordinances had already been performed.
For years—or what seemed like years—the First Presidency asked me, “When will you have it done?”With prayer, diligence, and the personal sacrifice of people of great ability, the task was accomplished.
It came step by step.
The first task was to make FamilySearch user-friendly for those who were not comfortable with computers.
More changes came, and I know they will continue to come, for whenever we proceed to resolve one inspired problem, we open the door for further revelation for advancements at least equally important but not yet seen.
Even today, FamilySearch is becoming what the Lord needs for part of His Restoration—and not just for avoiding duplication of ordinances.The Lord let us make improvements to help people gain feelings of familiarity and even love for their ancestors and complete their temple ordinances.
Now, as the Lord surely knew would happen, young people are becoming computer mentors to their parents and ward members.
All have found great joy in this service.The spirit of Elijah is changing the hearts of young and old, children and parents, grandchildren and grandparents.
Temples will soon again be happily scheduling baptismal opportunities and other sacred ordinances.
The desire to serve our ancestors and the bonding of parents and children are growing.The Lord saw it all coming.
He planned for it, step by step, as He has done with other changes in His Church.
He has raised up and prepared faithful people who choose to do hard things well.
He has always been lovingly patient in helping us learn “line upon line, precept upon precept, here a little and there a little.”9 He is firm in the timing and the sequence of His intentions, yet He ensures that sacrifice often brings continuing blessings that we did not foresee.I close by expressing my gratitude to the Lord—He who inspired President Nelson to invite me to make a sacrifice to prepare for this conference.
Every hour and every prayer during my preparation brought a blessing.I invite all who hear this message or read these words to have faith that the Lord is leading the Restoration of His gospel and His Church.
He goes before us.
He knows the future perfectly.
He invites you to the work.
He joins you in it.
He has in place a plan for your service.
And even as you sacrifice, you will feel joy as you help others rise to be ready for His coming.I testify to you that God the Father lives.
Jesus is the Christ.
This is His Church.
He knows and loves you.
He guides you.
He has prepared the way for you.
In the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.
The restored gospel of Jesus Christ encourages us to think about the future.
It explains the purpose of mortal life and the reality of the life to follow.
It teaches great ideas about the future to guide our actions today.In contrast, we all know persons who are concerned only with the present: spend it today, enjoy it today, and take no thought for the future.Our present and our future will be happier if we are always conscious of the future.
As we make current decisions, we should always be asking, “Where will this lead?”I.Some decisions are choices between doing something or doing nothing.
I heard an example of this kind of choice at a stake conference in the United States many years ago.The setting was a beautiful college campus.
A crowd of young students was seated on the grass.
The speaker who described this circumstance said they were watching a handsome tree squirrel with a large, bushy tail playing around the base of a beautiful hardwood tree.
Sometimes it was on the ground, sometimes up and down and around the trunk.
But why would that familiar sight attract a crowd of students?Stretched out prone on the grass nearby was an Irish setter.
He was the object of the students’ interest, and the squirrel was the object of his.
Each time the squirrel was momentarily out of sight circling the tree, the setter would quietly creep forward a few inches and then resume his apparently indifferent posture.
This was what held the students’ interest.
Silent and immobile, their eyes were riveted on the event whose outcome was increasingly obvious.Finally, the setter was close enough to bound at the squirrel and catch it in his mouth.
A gasp of horror arose, and the crowd of students surged forward and wrested the little animal away from the dog, but it was too late.
The squirrel was dead.Anyone in that crowd could have warned the squirrel at any time by waving his or her arms or crying out, but none did.
They just watched while the inevitable outcome got closer and closer.
No one asked, “Where will this lead?” When the predictable occurred, all rushed to prevent the outcome, but it was too late.
Tearful regret was all they could offer.That true story is a parable of sorts.
It applies to things we see in our own lives and in lives and circumstances around us.
As we see threats creeping up on persons or things we love, we have the choice of speaking or acting or remaining silent.
It is well to ask ourselves, “Where will this lead?” Where the consequences are immediate and serious, we cannot afford to do nothing.
We must sound appropriate warnings or support appropriate preventive efforts while there is still time.The decisions I have just described involve choices between taking some action or taking no action at all.
More common are those choices between one action or another.
These include choices between good or evil, but more frequently they are choices between two goods.
Here too it is desirable to ask where this will lead.
We make many choices between two goods, often involving how we will spend our time.
There is nothing bad about playing video games or texting or watching TV or talking on a cell phone.
But each of these involves what is called “opportunity cost,” meaning that if we spend time doing one thing, we lose the opportunity to do another.
I am sure you can see that we need to measure thoughtfully what we are losing by the time we spend on one activity, even if it is perfectly good in itself.Some time ago I gave a talk titled “Good, Better, Best.” In that talk I said that “just because something is good is not a sufficient reason for doing it.
The number of good things we can do far exceeds the time available to accomplish them.
Some things are better than good, and these are the things that should command priority attention in our lives.
… We have to forego some good things in order to choose others that are better or best.”1Take the long view.
What is the effect on our future of the decisions we make in the present?
Remember the importance of getting an education, studying the gospel, renewing our covenants by partaking of the sacrament, and attending the temple.II.“Where will this lead?” is also important in choosing how we label or think of ourselves.
Most important, each of us is a child of God with a potential destiny of eternal life.
Every other label, even including occupation, race, physical characteristics, or honors, is temporary or trivial in eternal terms.
Don’t choose to label yourselves or think of yourselves in terms that put a limit on a goal for which you might strive.My brethren, and my sisters who may view or read what I say here, I hope you know why your leaders give the teachings and counsel we give.
We love you, and our Heavenly Father and His Son, Jesus Christ, love you.
Their plan for us is the “great plan of happiness” (Alma 42:8).
That plan and Their commandments and ordinances and covenants lead us to the greatest happiness and joy in this life and in the life to come.
As servants of the Father and the Son, we teach and counsel as They have directed us by the Holy Ghost.
We have no desire other than to speak what is true and to encourage you to do what They have outlined as the pathway to eternal life, “the greatest of all the gifts of God” (Doctrine and Covenants 14:7).III.Here is another example of the effect on the future of decisions made in the present.
This example concerns the choice to make a present sacrifice to achieve an important future goal.At a stake conference in Cali, Colombia, a sister told how she and her fiancé desired to be married in the temple, but at that time the closest temple was in faraway Peru.
For a long time, they saved their money for the bus fares.
Finally they boarded the bus to Bogotá, but when they arrived there, they learned that all seats on the bus to Lima, Peru, were taken.
They could go home without being married or be married out of the temple.
Fortunately, there was one other alternative.
They could ride on the bus to Lima if they were willing to sit on the floor of the bus for the entire five-day and five-night ride.
They chose to do this.
She said it was difficult, even though some riders sometimes let them sit in their seats so they could stretch out on the floor.What impressed me in her talk was this sister’s statement that she was grateful she and her husband had been able to go to the temple in this way, because it changed the way they felt about the gospel and the way they felt about marriage in the temple.
The Lord had rewarded them with the growth that comes from sacrifice.
She also observed that their five-day trip to the temple accomplished a great deal more in building their spirituality than many visits to the temple that were sacrifice-free.In the years since I heard that testimony, I have wondered how different that young couple’s life would have been if they had made another choice—forgoing the sacrifice necessary to be married in the temple.Brethren, we make countless choices in life, some large and some seemingly small.
Looking back, we can see what a great difference some of our choices made in our lives.
We make better choices and decisions if we look at the alternatives and ponder where they will lead.
As we do, we will be following President Russell M. Nelson’s counsel to begin with the end in mind.2 For us, the end is always on the covenant path through the temple to eternal life, the greatest of all the gifts of God.I testify of Jesus Christ and of the effects of His Atonement and the other truths of His everlasting gospel in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
My dear brethren, it is inspiring to look out over this vast congregation of the Lord’s battalion of priesthood bearers.
What a mighty force for good you are!
We love you.
We pray for you.
And we are most grateful for you.Recently I have found myself drawn to the Lord’s instruction given through the Prophet Joseph Smith: “Say nothing but repentance unto this generation.”1 This declaration is often repeated throughout scripture.2 It prompts an obvious question: “Does everyone need to repent?” The answer is yes.Too many people consider repentance as punishment—something to be avoided except in the most serious circumstances.
But this feeling of being penalized is engendered by Satan.
He tries to block us from looking to Jesus Christ,3 who stands with open arms,4 hoping and willing to heal, forgive, cleanse, strengthen, purify, and sanctify us.The word for repentance in the Greek New Testament is metanoeo.
The prefix meta- means “change.” The suffix -noeo is related to Greek words that mean “mind,” “knowledge,” “spirit,” and “breath.”5Thus, when Jesus asks you and me to “repent,”6 He is inviting us to change our mind, our knowledge, our spirit—even the way we breathe.
He is asking us to change the way we love, think, serve, spend our time, treat our wives, teach our children, and even care for our bodies.Nothing is more liberating, more ennobling, or more crucial to our individual progression than is a regular, daily focus on repentance.
Repentance is not an event; it is a process.
It is the key to happiness and peace of mind.
When coupled with faith, repentance opens our access to the power of the Atonement of Jesus Christ.7Whether you are diligently moving along the covenant path, have slipped or stepped from the covenant path, or can’t even see the path from where you are now, I plead with you to repent.
Experience the strengthening power of daily repentance—of doing and being a little better each day.When we choose to repent, we choose to change!
We allow the Savior to transform us into the best version of ourselves.
We choose to grow spiritually and receive joy—the joy of redemption in Him.8 When we choose to repent, we choose to become more like Jesus Christ!9Brethren, we need to do better and be better because we are in a battle.
The battle with sin is real.
The adversary is quadrupling his efforts to disrupt testimonies and impede the work of the Lord.
He is arming his minions with potent weapons to keep us from partaking of the joy and love of the Lord.10Repentance is the key to avoiding misery inflicted by traps of the adversary.
The Lord does not expect perfection from us at this point in our eternal progression.
But He does expect us to become increasingly pure.
Daily repentance is the pathway to purity, and purity brings power.
Personal purity can make us powerful tools in the hands of God.
Our repentance—our purity—will empower us to help in the gathering of Israel.The Lord taught the Prophet Joseph Smith “that the rights of the priesthood are inseparably connected with the powers of heaven, and that the powers of heaven cannot be controlled nor handled only upon the principles of righteousness.”11We know what will give us greater access to the powers of heaven.
We also know what will hinder our progress—what we need to stop doing to increase our access to the powers of heaven.
Brethren, prayerfully seek to understand what stands in the way of your repentance.
Identify what stops you from repenting.
And then, change!
Repent!
All of us can do better and be better than ever before.12There are specific ways in which we can likely improve.
One is in the way we treat our bodies.
I stand in awe of the miracle of the human body.
It is a magnificent creation, essential to our gradual ascent toward our ultimate divine potential.
We cannot progress without it.
In giving us the gift of a body, God has allowed us to take a vital step toward becoming more like Him.Satan understands this.
He chafes at the fact that his premortal apostasy permanently disqualifies him from this privilege, leaving him in a constant state of jealousy and resentment.
Thus many, if not most, of the temptations he puts in our path cause us to abuse our bodies or the bodies of others.
Because Satan is miserable without a body, he wants us to be miserable because of ours.13Your body is your personal temple, created to house your eternal spirit.14 Your care of that temple is important.
Now, I ask you, brethren, are you more interested in dressing and grooming your body to appeal to the world than to please God?
Your answer to this question sends a direct message to Him about your feelings regarding His transcendent gift to you.
In this reverence for our bodies, brethren, I think we can do better and be better.Another way we can also do better and be better is how we honor the women in our lives, beginning with our wives and daughters, our mothers and sisters.15Months ago, I received a heartbreaking letter from a dear sister.
She wrote: “[My daughters and I] feel we are in fierce competition for our husbands’ and sons’ undivided attention, with 24/7 sports updates, video games, stock market updates, [and] endless analyzing and watching of games of every [conceivable] sport.
It feels like we’re losing our front-row seats with our husbands and sons because of their permanent front-row seats with [sports and games].”16Brethren, your first and foremost duty as a bearer of the priesthood is to love and care for your wife.
Become one with her.
Be her partner.
Make it easy for her to want to be yours.
No other interest in life should take priority over building an eternal relationship with her.
Nothing on TV, a mobile device, or a computer is more important than her well-being.
Take an inventory of how you spend your time and where you devote your energy.
That will tell you where your heart is.
Pray to have your heart attuned to your wife’s heart.
Seek to bring her joy.
Seek her counsel, and listen.
Her input will improve your output.If you have a need to repent because of the way you have treated the women closest to you, begin now.
And remember that it is your responsibility to help the women in your life receive the blessings that derive from living the Lord’s law of chastity.
Never be the reason that a woman is unable to receive her temple blessings.Brethren, we all need to repent.
We need to get up off the couch, put down the remote, and wake up from our spiritual slumber.
It is time to put on the full armor of God so we can engage in the most important work on earth.
It is time to “thrust in [our] sickles, and reap with all [our] might, mind, and strength.”17 The forces of evil have never raged more forcefully than they do today.
As servants of the Lord, we cannot be asleep while this battle rages.Your family needs your leadership and love.
Your quorum and those in your ward or branch need your strength.
And all who meet you need to know what a true disciple of the Lord looks like and acts like.My dear brethren, you were chosen by our Father to come to earth at this crucial time because of your premortal spiritual valor.
You are among the finest, most valiant men who have ever come to the earth.
Satan knows who you are and who you were premortally, and he understands the work that must be done before the Savior returns.
And after millennia of practicing his cunning arts, the adversary is experienced and incorrigible.Gratefully, the priesthood we hold is far stronger than are the wiles of the adversary.
I plead with you to be the men and young men the Lord needs you to be.
Make your focus on daily repentance so integral to your life that you can exercise the priesthood with greater power than ever before.
This is the only way you will keep yourself and your family spiritually safe in the challenging days ahead.The Lord needs selfless men who put the welfare of others ahead of their own.
He needs men who intentionally work to hear the voice of the Spirit with clarity.
He needs men of the covenant who keep their covenants with integrity.
He needs men who are determined to keep themselves sexually pure—worthy men who can be called upon at a moment’s notice to give blessings with pure hearts, clean minds, and willing hands.
The Lord needs men eager to repent—men with a zeal to serve and be part of the Lord’s battalion of worthy priesthood bearers.I bless you to become those men.
I bless you with the courage to repent daily and learn how to exercise full priesthood power.
I bless you to communicate the love of the Savior to your wife and children and to all who know you.
I bless you to do better and be better.
And I bless you that as you make these efforts, you will experience miracles in your life.We are engaged in the work of Almighty God.
Jesus is the Christ.
We are Their servants.
I so testify in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
I have chosen to speak further about the priesthood of God, the subject already addressed by three earlier speakers who taught us about how the priesthood blesses the lives of women, young women, and young men.The priesthood is a divine power and authority held in trust to be used for God’s work for the benefit of all of His children.
Priesthood is not those who have been ordained to a priesthood office or those who exercise its authority.
Men who hold the priesthood are not the priesthood.
While we should not refer to ordained men as the priesthood, it is appropriate to refer to them as holders of the priesthood.The power of the priesthood exists both in the Church and in the family organization.
But priesthood power and priesthood authority function differently in the Church than they do in the family.
All of this is according to the principles the Lord has established.
The purpose of God’s plan is to lead His children to eternal life.
Mortal families are essential to that plan.
The Church exists to provide the doctrine, the authority, and the ordinances necessary to perpetuate family relationships into the eternities.
Thus, the family organization and the Church of Jesus Christ have a mutually reinforcing relationship.
The blessings of the priesthood—such as the fulness of the gospel and ordinances like baptism, confirmation and receiving the gift of the Holy Ghost, the temple endowment, and eternal marriage—are available to men and women alike.1The priesthood we speak of here is the Melchizedek Priesthood, restored at the beginning of the Restoration of the gospel.
Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery were ordained by Peter, James, and John, who declared themselves “as possessing the keys of the kingdom, and of the dispensation of the fulness of times” (Doctrine and Covenants 128:20).
These senior Apostles received that authority from the Savior Himself.
All other authorities or offices in the priesthood are appendages to the Melchizedek Priesthood (see Doctrine and Covenants 107:5), for it “holds the right of presidency, and has power and authority over all the offices in the church in all ages of the world” (Doctrine and Covenants 107:8).In the Church the authority of the greater priesthood, the Melchizedek Priesthood, and the lesser or Aaronic Priesthood is exercised under the direction of a priesthood leader, like a bishop or president, who holds the keys of that priesthood.
To understand the exercise of priesthood authority in the Church, we must understand the principle of priesthood keys.The Melchizedek Priesthood keys of the kingdom were conferred by Peter, James, and John, but that did not complete the restoration of priesthood keys.
Some keys of the priesthood came later.
Following the dedication of the first temple of this dispensation in Kirtland, Ohio, three prophets—Moses, Elias, and Elijah—restored “the keys of this dispensation,” including keys pertaining to the gathering of Israel and the work of the temples of the Lord (see Doctrine and Covenants 110), as President Eyring has just described so persuasively.The most familiar example of the function of keys is in the performance of priesthood ordinances.
An ordinance is a solemn act signifying the making of covenants and the promising of blessings.
In the Church all ordinances are performed under the authorization of the priesthood leader who holds the keys for that ordinance.An ordinance is most commonly officiated by persons who have been ordained to an office in the priesthood acting under the direction of one who holds priesthood keys.
For example, the holders of the various offices of the Aaronic Priesthood officiate in the ordinance of the sacrament under the keys and direction of the bishop, who holds the keys of the Aaronic Priesthood.
The same principle applies to the priesthood ordinances in which women officiate in the temple.
Though women do not hold an office in the priesthood, they perform sacred temple ordinances under the authorization of the president of the temple, who holds the keys for the ordinances of the temple.Another example of priesthood authority under the direction of one who holds the keys are the teachings of men and women called to teach the gospel, whether in classes in their home wards or in the mission field.
Other examples are those who hold leadership positions in the ward and exercise priesthood authority in their leadership by reason of their callings and under the setting apart and direction of the priesthood leader who holds the keys in the ward or the stake.
This is how the authority and power of the priesthood is exercised and enjoyed in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.2Priesthood authority is also exercised and its blessings realized in the families of Latter-day Saints.
By families I mean a priesthood-holding man and a woman who are married and their children.
I also include the variations from the ideal relationships such as caused by death or divorce.The principle that priesthood authority can be exercised only under the direction of the one who holds the keys for that function is fundamental in the Church, but this does not apply in the family.
For example, a father presides and exercises the priesthood in his family by the authority of the priesthood he holds.
He has no need to have the direction or approval of one holding priesthood keys in order to perform his various family functions.
These include counseling the members of his family, holding family meetings, giving priesthood blessings to his wife and children, or giving healing blessings to family members or others.3 Church authorities teach family members but do not direct the exercise of priesthood authority in the family.The same principle applies when a father is absent and a mother is the family leader.
She presides in her home and is instrumental in bringing the power and blessings of the priesthood into her family through her endowment and sealing in the temple.
While she is not authorized to give the priesthood blessings that can be given only by a person holding a certain office in the priesthood, she can perform all of the other functions of family leadership.
In doing so, she exercises the power of the priesthood for the benefit of the children over whom she presides in her position of leadership in the family.4If fathers would magnify their priesthood in their own family, it would further the mission of the Church as much as anything else they might do.
Fathers who hold the Melchizedek Priesthood should exercise their authority “by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned” (Doctrine and Covenants 121:41).
That high standard for the exercise of all priesthood authority is most important in the family.
Holders of the priesthood should also keep the commandments so they will have the power of the priesthood to give blessings to their family members.
They should cultivate loving family relationships so that family members will want to ask them for blessings.
And parents should encourage more priesthood blessings in the family.5In these conference meetings, as we seek brief shelter from our mortal concerns with a devastating pandemic, we have been taught great principles of eternity.
I encourage each of us to have our eye “single” to receive these truths of eternity so that our bodies “shall be full of light” (3 Nephi 13:22).In His sermon to multitudes recorded in the Bible and in the Book of Mormon, the Savior taught that mortal bodies can be full of light or full of darkness.
We, of course, want to be filled with light, and our Savior taught us how we can make this happen.
We should listen to messages about the truths of eternity.
He used the example of our eye, through which we take light into our bodies.
If our “eye be single”—in other words, if we are concentrating on receiving eternal light and understanding—He explained, “thy whole body shall be full of light” (Matthew 6:22; 3 Nephi 13:22).
But if our “eye be evil”—that is, if we look for evil and take that into our bodies—He warned, “thy whole body shall be full of darkness” (verse 23).
In other words, the light or darkness in our bodies depends on how we see—or receive—the eternal truths we are taught.We should follow the Savior’s invitation to seek and ask to understand the truths of eternity.
He promises that our Father in Heaven is willing to teach everyone the truths they seek (see 3 Nephi 14:8).
If we desire this and have our eye single to receive them, the Savior promises that the truths of eternity “shall be opened” unto us (see 3 Nephi 14:7–8).In contrast, Satan is anxious to confuse our thinking or to lead us astray on important matters like the operations of the priesthood of God.
The Savior warned of such “false prophets, who come to you in sheep’s clothing, but inwardly they are ravening wolves” (3 Nephi 14:15).
He gave us this test to help us choose the truth from among different teachings that might confuse us: “Ye shall know them by their fruits,” He taught (3 Nephi 14:16).
“A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither [can] a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit” (verse 18).
Therefore, we should look to the results—“the fruits”—of principles that are taught and the persons who teach them.
That is the best answer to many of the objections we hear against the Church and its doctrines and policies and leadership.
Follow the test the Savior taught.
Look to the fruits—the results.When we think of the fruits of the gospel and the restored Church of Jesus Christ, we rejoice in how the Church, in the lifetimes of its living members, has expanded from local congregations in the Intermountain West to where a majority of its more than 16 million members reside in nations other than the United States.
With that growth, we have felt increases in the Church’s capacity to assist its members.
We assist in keeping the commandments, in fulfilling responsibilities to preach the restored gospel, in gathering Israel, and in building temples throughout the world.We are led by a prophet, President Russell M. Nelson, whose leadership the Lord has used to achieve the progress we have felt during all of the more than two years of his leadership.
Now we will be blessed to hear from President Nelson, who will teach us how to further our progress in this restored Church of Jesus Christ in these challenging times.I testify of the truth of these things and join you in praying for our prophet, from whom we will next hear, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
While on a flight to Peru a few years ago, I was seated next to a self-proclaimed atheist.
He asked me why I believe in God.
In the delightful conversation that ensued, I told him that I believed in God because Joseph Smith saw Him—and then I added that my knowledge of God also came from personal, real spiritual experience.
I shared my belief that “all things denote there is a God”1 and asked him how he believed the earth—this oasis of life in the vacuum of space—came into existence.
He replied that, in his words, “the accident” could have happened over eons of time.
When I explained how highly improbable it would be for an “accident” to produce such beauty and order, he was quiet for a time and then good-naturedly said, “You got me.” I asked if he would read the Book of Mormon.
He said he would, so I sent him a copy.Years later I made a new friend while in an airport in Lagos, Nigeria.
We became acquainted as he checked my passport.
I asked him about his religious beliefs, and he expressed strong faith in God.
I shared the joy and vibrancy of the restored gospel of Jesus Christ and asked if he would like to learn more from the missionaries.
He said yes, was taught, and was baptized.
A year or two later, as I walked through the airport in Liberia, I heard a voice call out my name.
I turned, and that same young man approached with a big smile.
We joyfully embraced, and he let me know that he was active in the Church and working with the missionaries to teach his girlfriend.Now, I do not know whether my atheist friend ever read the Book of Mormon or joined the Church.
My second friend did.
For both of them, my responsibility2—my opportunity—was the same: hold up the gospel light—to love, share, and invite each of them in a normal, natural way.3Brothers and sisters, I have experienced the blessings of sharing the gospel, and they are remarkable.
Here are a few of them:Sharing the Gospel Brings Joy and HopeYou see, you and I know that we lived as children of our Heavenly Father before coming to this earth4 and that the earth was created for the purpose of giving each person the opportunity to obtain a body, gain experience, learn, and grow in order to receive eternal life—which is God’s life.5 Heavenly Father knew we would suffer and sin on earth, so He sent His Son, whose “matchless life”6 and infinite atoning sacrifice7 make it possible for us to be forgiven, healed, and made whole.8To know these truths is life changing!
When a person learns the glorious purpose of life, comes to understand that Christ forgives and succors those who follow Him, and then chooses to follow Christ into the waters of baptism, life changes for the better—even when the external circumstances of life do not.A radiantly happy sister I met in Onitsha, Nigeria, told me that from the time she learned the gospel and was baptized (and now I use her words), “everything is good for me.
I am happy.
I am in heaven.”9 Sharing the gospel kindles joy and hope in the souls of both giver and receiver.
Truly, “how great shall be your joy”10 as you share the gospel!
Sharing the gospel is joy upon joy, hope upon hope.11Sharing the Gospel Brings God’s Power into Our LivesWhen we were baptized, each of us entered into a perpetual12 covenant with God to “serve him and keep his commandments,”13 which includes “to stand as witnesses of [Him] at all times and in all things, and in all places.”14 As we “abide in” Him by keeping this covenant, the enlivening, sustaining, sanctifying power of godliness flows into our lives from Christ, just as a branch receives nourishment from the vine.15Sharing the Gospel Protects Us from TemptationThe Lord commands:“Hold up your light that it may shine unto the world.
Behold I am the light which ye shall hold up—that which ye have seen me do.
…“… I have commanded that … ye should come unto me, that ye might feel and see; even so shall ye do unto the world; and whosoever breaketh this commandment suffereth himself to be led into temptation.”16Choosing to not hold up the gospel light moves us to the shadows, where we are susceptible to temptation.
Importantly, the converse is true: choosing to hold up the gospel light brings us more fully into that light and the protection it provides against temptation.
What a tremendous blessing in today’s world!Sharing the Gospel Brings HealingSister Tiffany Myloan accepted the invitation to support the missionaries despite very heavy personal struggles, including questions about her faith.
She recently told me that supporting the missionaries has renewed her faith and sense of well-being.
In her words, “Missionary work is so healing.”17Joy.
Hope.
Sustaining power from God.
Protection from temptation.
Healing.
All of these—and more (including forgiveness of sins)18—distill upon us from heaven as we share the gospel.Now, Turning to Our Great OpportunityBrothers and sisters, “there are many … among all … parties, [sects,] and denominations … who are only kept from the truth because they know not where to find it.”19 The need to hold up our light has never been greater in all human history.
And the truth has never been more accessible.Jimmy Ton, who grew up Buddhist, was impressed by a family who shared their life on YouTube.
When he learned that they were members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, he studied the gospel online by himself, read the Book of Mormon using the app, and was baptized after meeting with the missionaries in college.20 Elder Ton is now a full-time missionary himself.He and his fellow missionaries around the world are the Lord’s battalion—to quote our prophet.21 These missionaries buck the trend of the world: while surveys report that Gen Z is turning away from God,22 our stripling warrior23 elders and sisters are turning people to God.
And increasing numbers of members of the Church are uniting with the missionaries in sharing the gospel, helping more and more friends to come unto Christ and His Church.Our Latter-day Saints in Liberia helped 507 friends enter the waters of baptism during the 10 months there were no full-time missionaries serving in their country.
When one of our wonderful stake presidents there heard that the full-time missionaries may be returning, he remarked, “Oh good, now they can help us with our work.”He is correct: the gathering of Israel—the greatest cause on this earth24—is our covenant responsibility.
And this is our time!
My invitation today is simple: share the gospel.
Be you and hold up the light.
Pray for heaven’s help and follow spiritual promptings.
Share your life normally and naturally; invite another person to come and see, to come and help, and to come and belong.25 And then rejoice as you and those you love receive the promised blessings.I know that in Christ these good tidings are preached to the meek; in Christ are the brokenhearted bound up; in Christ is liberty proclaimed to the captives; and in Christ, only in Christ, are those who mourn given beauty for ashes.26 Hence, the great need to make these things known!27I testify that Jesus Christ is the author and the finisher of our faith.28 He will finish, He will complete, our exercise of faith—however imperfect—in holding up the gospel light.
He will work miracles in our lives and in the lives of all He gathers, for He is a God of miracles.29 In the wondrous name of Jesus Christ, amen.
This has been an unforgettable evening.
My dear sisters, I am honored to be with you.
You have been on my mind so often during these past few months.
You are more than eight million strong.
You have not only the numbers but the spiritual power to change the world.
I have watched you doing just that during this pandemic.Some of you suddenly found yourselves searching for scarce supplies or a new job.
Many tutored children and checked on neighbors.
Some welcomed missionaries home earlier than expected, while others transformed your homes into missionary training centers.
You have used technology to connect with family and friends, to minister to those who have felt isolated, and to study Come, Follow Me with others.
You have found new ways to make the Sabbath a delight.
And you have made protective masks—millions of them!With heartfelt compassion and love, my heart goes out to the many women around the world whose loved ones have died.
We weep with you.
And we pray for you.
We praise and pray for all who work tirelessly to safeguard the health of others.You young women have also been remarkable.
Though social media has been flooded with contention, many of you have found ways to encourage others and share our Savior’s light.Sisters, you have all been absolutely heroic!
I marvel at your strength and your faith.
You have shown that in difficult circumstances, you bravely carry on.
I love you, and I assure you that the Lord loves you and sees the great work you are performing.
Thank you!
Once again, you have proven that you are literally the hope of Israel!You embody the hopes that President Gordon B. Hinckley had for you when he introduced “The Family: A Proclamation to the World” 25 years ago in the September 1995 general Relief Society meeting.1 It is significant that he chose to introduce this important proclamation to the sisters of the Church.
By doing so, President Hinckley underscored the irreplaceable influence of women in the Lord’s plan.Now, I would love to know what you have learned this year.
Have you grown closer to the Lord, or do you feel further away from Him?
And how have current events made you feel about the future?Admittedly, the Lord has spoken of our day in sobering terms.
He warned that in our day “men’s hearts [would fail] them”2 and that even the very elect would be at risk of being deceived.3 He told the Prophet Joseph Smith that “peace [would] be taken from the earth”4 and calamities would befall mankind.5Yet the Lord has also provided a vision of how remarkable this dispensation is.
He inspired the Prophet Joseph Smith to declare that “the work of … these last days, is one of vast magnitude.
… Its glories are past description, and its grandeur unsurpassable.”6Now, grandeur may not be the word you would choose to describe these past few months!
How are we to deal with both the somber prophecies and the glorious pronouncements about our day?
The Lord told us how with simple, but stunning, reassurance: “If ye are prepared ye shall not fear.”7What a promise!
It is one that can literally change the way we see our future.
I recently heard a woman of deep testimony admit that the pandemic, combined with an earthquake in the Salt Lake Valley, had helped her realize she was not as prepared as she thought she was.
When I asked whether she was referring to her food storage or her testimony, she smiled and said, “Yes!”If preparation is our key to embracing this dispensation and our future with faith, how can we best prepare?For decades, the Lord’s prophets have urged us to store food, water, and financial reserves for a time of need.
The current pandemic has reinforced the wisdom of that counsel.
I urge you to take steps to be temporally prepared.
But I am even more concerned about your spiritual and emotional preparation.In that regard, we can learn a lot from Captain Moroni.
As commander of the Nephite armies, he faced opposing forces that were stronger, greater in number, and meaner.
So, Moroni prepared his people in three essential ways.First, he helped them create areas where they would be safe—“places of security” he called them.8 Second, he prepared “the minds of the people to be faithful unto the Lord.”9 And third, he never stopped preparing his people—physically or spiritually.10 Let us consider these three principles.Principle Number One: Create Places of SecurityMoroni fortified every Nephite city with embankments, forts, and walls.11 When the Lamanites came against them, they “were astonished exceedingly, because of the wisdom of the Nephites in preparing their places of security.”12Similarly, as turmoil rages around us, we need to create places where we are safe, both physically and spiritually.
When your home becomes a personal sanctuary of faith—where the Spirit resides—your home becomes the first line of defense.Likewise, the stakes of Zion are “a refuge from the storm”13 because they are led by those who hold priesthood keys and exercise priesthood authority.
As you continue to follow the counsel of those whom the Lord has authorized to guide you, you will feel greater safety.The temple—the house of the Lord—is a place of security unlike any other.
There, you sisters are endowed with priesthood power through the sacred priesthood covenants you make.14 There, your families are sealed for eternity.
Even this year, when access to our temples has been seriously limited, your endowment has given you constant access to God’s power as you have honored your covenants with Him.Simply said, a place of security is anywhere you can feel the presence of the Holy Ghost and be guided by Him.15 When the Holy Ghost is with you, you can teach truth, even when it runs counter to prevailing opinions.
And you can ponder sincere questions about the gospel in an environment of revelation.I invite you, my dear sisters, to create a home that is a place of security.
And I renew my invitation for you to increase your understanding of priesthood power and of temple covenants and blessings.
Having places of security to which you can retreat will help you embrace the future with faith.Principle Number Two: Prepare Your Mind to Be Faithful to GodWe have undertaken a major project to extend the life and capacity of the Salt Lake Temple.Some questioned the need for taking such extraordinary measures.
However, when the Salt Lake Valley suffered a 5.7-magnitude earthquake earlier this year, this venerable temple shook hard enough that the trumpet on the statue of the angel Moroni fell!16Just as the physical foundation of the Salt Lake Temple must be strong enough to withstand natural disasters, our spiritual foundations must be solid.
Then, when metaphorical earthquakes rock our lives, we can stand “steadfast and immovable” because of our faith.17The Lord taught us how to increase our faith by seeking “learning, even by study and also by faith.”18 We strengthen our faith in Jesus Christ as we strive to keep His commandments and “always remember him.”19 Further, our faith increases every time we exercise our faith in Him.
That is what learning by faith means.For example, each time we have the faith to be obedient to God’s laws—even when popular opinions belittle us—or each time we resist entertainment or ideologies that celebrate covenant-breaking, we are exercising our faith, which in turn increases our faith.Further, few things build faith more than does regular immersion in the Book of Mormon.
No other book testifies of Jesus Christ with such power and clarity.
Its prophets, as inspired by the Lord, saw our day and selected the doctrine and truths that would help us most.
The Book of Mormon is our latter-day survival guide.Of course, our ultimate security comes as we yoke ourselves to Heavenly Father and Jesus Christ!
Life without God is a life filled with fear.
Life with God is a life filled with peace.
This is because spiritual blessings come to the faithful.
Receiving personal revelation is one of the greatest of those blessings.The Lord has promised that if we will ask, we may receive “revelation upon revelation.”20 I promise that as you increase your capacity to receive revelation, the Lord will bless you with increased direction for your life and with boundless gifts of the Spirit.Principle Number Three: Never Stop PreparingEven when things went well, Captain Moroni continued to prepare his people.
He never stopped.
He never became complacent.The adversary never stops attacking.
So, we can never stop preparing!
The more self-reliant we are—temporally, emotionally, and spiritually—the more prepared we are to thwart Satan’s relentless assaults.Dear sisters, you are adept at creating places of security for yourselves and those you love.
Further, you have a divine endowment that enables you to build faith in others in compelling ways.21 And you never stop.
You have demonstrated that once again this year.Please, keep going!
Your vigilance in safeguarding your homes and instilling faith in the hearts of your loved ones will reap rewards for generations to come.My dear sisters, we have so much to look forward to!
The Lord placed you here now because He knew you had the capacity to negotiate the complexities of the latter part of these latter days.
He knew you would grasp the grandeur of His work and be eager to help bring it to pass.I am not saying that the days ahead will be easy, but I promise you that the future will be glorious for those who are prepared and who continue to prepare to be instruments in the Lord’s hands.My dear sisters, let us not just endure this current season.
Let us embrace the future with faith!
Turbulent times are opportunities for us to thrive spiritually.
They are times when our influence can be much more penetrating than in calmer times.I promise that as we create places of security, prepare our minds to be faithful to God, and never stop preparing, God will bless us.
He will “deliver us; yea, insomuch that he [will] speak peace to our souls, and [will] grant unto us great faith, and … cause us that we [can] hope for our deliverance in him.”22As you prepare to embrace the future with faith, these promises will be yours!
I so testify, with my expression of love for you and my confidence in you, in the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.
My beloved brothers and sisters, I am grateful for the opportunity to speak with you in this Saturday evening session of general conference.
In his introduction to the conference this morning, President Russell M. Nelson said that “pure revelation for the questions in your heart will make this conference rewarding and unforgettable.
If you have not yet sought for the ministering of the Holy Ghost to help you hear what the Lord would have you hear during these two days, I invite you to do so now.”1 I have sought for that blessing as I have prepared to receive revelation for this visit with you.
My earnest prayer is that you may receive revelation from God.The way to receive revelation from God has not changed from the days of Adam and Eve.
It has been the same for all called servants of the Lord from the beginning to the present day.
It is the same for you and me.
It is always done by exercising faith.2The teenage Joseph Smith had faith sufficient to ask a question of God, believing that God would answer his heartfelt need.
The answer that came changed the world.
He wanted to know what church to join to be cleansed of sin.
The answer he received encouraged him to keep asking ever-better questions and to act on the continuing flow of revelation that had just begun.3Your experience can possibly be similar in this conference.
You have questions for which you seek answers.
You have at least enough faith to hope that you will receive answers from the Lord through His servants.4 You will not have the opportunity to ask aloud for answers from the speakers, but you can ask your loving Father in prayer.I know from experience that answers will come to fit your needs and your spiritual preparation.
If you need an answer that is important to your eternal welfare or that of others, the answer is more likely to come.
Yet even then, you may receive—as did Joseph Smith—the answer to be patient.5If your faith in Jesus Christ has led to a heart softened through the effects of His Atonement, you will be more able to feel the whisperings of the Spirit in answer to your prayers.
My personal experience is that the still, small voice—which is real—is clear and discernible in my mind when I feel an internal quiet and submission to the Lord’s will.
That feeling of humility can be best described as “Not my will, but thine, be done.”6This process of revelation is why you will hear speakers teach in this conference what is called the doctrine of Christ.7 Revelation comes to us in proportion to the degree to which we have sought to take the doctrine of Christ into our hearts and implement it in our lives.You remember from the Book of Mormon that Nephi taught us that faith in Jesus Christ is the key to receiving revelations of truth and the key to having the confidence that we are following the Savior’s direction.
Nephi wrote the following words centuries before the birth of Jesus Christ into mortality:“Angels speak by the power of the Holy Ghost; wherefore, they speak the words of Christ.
Wherefore, I said unto you, feast upon the words of Christ; for behold, the words of Christ will tell you all things what ye should do.“Wherefore, now after I have spoken these words, if ye cannot understand them it will be because ye ask not, neither do ye knock; wherefore, ye are not brought into the light, but must perish in the dark.“For behold, again I say unto you that if ye will enter in by the way, and receive the Holy Ghost, it will show unto you all things what ye should do.“Behold, this is the doctrine of Christ, and there will be no more doctrine given until after he shall manifest himself unto you in the flesh.
And when he shall manifest himself unto you in the flesh, the things which he shall say unto you shall ye observe to do.”8The Lord will say things through His servants to you and to me today and in the days ahead.
He will tell us what things we should do.9 The Savior will not shout commands to you and me.
As He taught Elijah:“And he said, Go forth, and stand upon the mount before the Lord.
And, behold, the Lord passed by, and a great and strong wind rent the mountains, and brake in pieces the rocks before the Lord; but the Lord was not in the wind: and after the wind an earthquake; but the Lord was not in the earthquake:“And after the earthquake a fire; but the Lord was not in the fire: and after the fire a still small voice.”10Hearing that voice will come from our faith in Him.
With sufficient faith, we will ask for direction with the intent to go and do whatever He asks.11 We will have developed the faith to know that whatever He asks will bless others and that we can be purified in the process because of His love for us.As our faith in Jesus Christ will have led us to ask the Father for answers, that faith will also have brought the Savior’s softening touch enough for us to hear His direction and be determined and excited to obey.
We then will sing the words of the hymn with joy, even when the work is hard: “Sweet is the work, my God, my King.”12The more we have the doctrine of Christ in our lives and hearts, the more we feel greater love and sympathy for those who have never had the blessings of faith in Jesus Christ or are struggling to maintain it.
It is hard to keep the Lord’s commandments without faith and trust in Him.
As some lose their faith in the Savior, they may even attack His counsel, calling good evil and evil good.13 To avoid this tragic error, it is crucial that any personal revelation we receive be consonant with the teachings of the Lord and His prophets.Brothers and sisters, it takes faith to be obedient to the Lord’s commandments.
It takes faith in Jesus Christ to serve others for Him.
It takes faith to go out to teach His gospel and offer it to people who may not feel the voice of the Spirit or may even deny the reality of the message.
But as we exercise our faith in Christ—and follow His living prophet—faith will increase across the world.
Because of technology, perhaps more of God’s children will hear and recognize the word of God this weekend than during any other two days in history.With increasing faith that this is the Lord’s Church and kingdom on earth, more members pay tithing and donate to assist those in need, even as those members face trials of their own.
With faith that they are called by Jesus Christ, missionaries across the world have found ways to rise above the challenges created by a pandemic, doing so with courage and good cheer.
And in their extra effort, their faith has grown stronger.Opposition and trials have long been a seedbed for the growth of faith.
That has always been true, especially since the beginning of the Restoration and the founding of the Lord’s Church.14What President George Q. Cannon said long ago is true today and will be until the Savior comes personally to lead His Church and His people: “Obedience to the Gospel brings [people] into very close and intimate relationship with the Lord.
It establishes a close connection between men on the earth and our Great Creator in the heavens.
It brings to the human mind a feeling of perfect confidence in the Almighty and in His willingness to listen to and answer the supplications of those who trust in Him.
In times of trial and difficulty this confidence is beyond price.
Trouble may come upon the individual or upon the people, disaster may threaten and every human hope may seem to be overthrown, yet, where [people] have availed themselves of the privileges which obedience to the Gospel brings, they have a sure standing place; their feet are upon a rock that cannot be moved.”15It is my testimony that the rock upon which we stand is our witness that Jesus is the Christ; that this is His Church, which He leads personally; and that President Russell M. Nelson is His living prophet today.President Nelson seeks and receives direction from the Lord.
He is for me an example of seeking that direction with the determination to follow it.
That same determination to be obedient to the Lord’s direction is in the hearts of all those who have spoken or will speak, pray, or sing in this general conference of His Church.I pray that those across the earth who watch or listen to this conference will have the feeling of the Lord’s love for them.
Heavenly Father has answered my prayer that I might feel at least a tiny part of the Savior’s love for you and His love for His Heavenly Father, who is our Heavenly Father.I testify that Jesus Christ lives.
He is our Savior and our Redeemer.
This is His Church.
He is at its head.
He, with His Heavenly Father, appeared in person to Joseph Smith in a grove of trees in New York.
The gospel of Jesus Christ and His priesthood were restored through heavenly messengers.16 By the power of the Holy Ghost, I know that is true.I pray that you may have that same witness.
I pray that you will ask Heavenly Father for the faith in Jesus Christ you need to make and keep the covenants that will allow the Holy Ghost to be your constant companion.
I leave you with my love and my sure witness in the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.
My dear brothers and sisters, our Heavenly Father and Jesus Christ desire to bless each of us.1 The question of how to access and obtain those blessings has been the subject of theological debate and discussion for centuries.2 Some contend that blessings are completely earned; we receive them only through our works.
Others argue that God has already chosen who He will bless and how—and that these determinations are unchangeable.
Both positions are fundamentally flawed.
Blessings from heaven are neither earned by frenetically accruing “good deed coupons” nor by helplessly waiting to see if we win the blessing lottery.
No, the truth is much more nuanced but more appropriate for the relationship between a loving Heavenly Father and His potential heirs—us.
Restored truth reveals that blessings are never earned, but faith-inspired actions on our part, both initial and ongoing, are essential.3As we consider how we receive blessings from God, let us liken heavenly blessings to a massive pile of wood.
Imagine at the center a small mound of kindling, topped by a layer of wood chips.
Sticks come next, then small logs, and finally huge logs.
This woodpile contains an enormous amount of fuel, capable of producing light and heat for days.
Envision next to the woodpile a single match, the kind with a phosphorus tip.4For the energy in the woodpile to be released, the match needs to be struck and the kindling lit.
The kindling will quickly catch fire and cause the larger pieces of wood to burn.
Once this combustion reaction starts, it continues until all the wood is burned or the fire is deprived of oxygen.Striking the match and lighting the kindling are small actions that enable the potential energy of the wood to be released.5 Until the match is struck, nothing happens, regardless of the size of the woodpile.
If the match is struck but not applied to the kindling, the amount of light and heat released from the match alone is miniscule and the combustion energy in the wood remains unreleased.
If oxygen is not supplied at any point, the combustion reaction stops.In a similar way, most blessings that God desires to give us require action on our part—action based on our faith in Jesus Christ.
Faith in the Savior is a principle of action and of power.6 First we act in faith; then the power comes—according to God’s will and timing.
The sequence is crucial.7 The required action, though, is always tiny when compared to the blessings we ultimately receive.8Consider what happened when fiery, flying serpents came among the ancient Israelites on their way to the promised land.
The bite of a poisonous serpent was fatal.
But a bitten individual could be healed by looking at a brass serpent fashioned by Moses and placed on a pole.9 How much energy does it take to look at something?
All who looked accessed the powers of heaven and were healed.
Other Israelites who were bitten failed to look at the brazen serpent and died.
Perhaps they lacked the faith to look.10 Perhaps they did not believe that such a simple action could trigger the promised healing.
Or perhaps they willfully hardened their hearts and rejected the counsel of God’s prophet.11The principle of activating blessings that flow from God is eternal.
Like those ancient Israelites, we too must act on our faith in Jesus Christ to be blessed.
God has revealed that “there is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated—and when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated.”12 That being said, you do not earn a blessing—that notion is false—but you do have to qualify for it.
Our salvation comes only through the merits and grace of Jesus Christ.13 The immensity of His atoning sacrifice means that the woodpile is infinite; our puny actions approach zero in comparison.
But they are not zero, and they are not insignificant; in the dark, a match that is lit can be seen for miles.
In fact, it can be seen in heaven because small acts of faith are required to ignite God’s promises.14To receive a desired blessing from God, act with faith, striking the metaphorical match on which the heavenly blessing is contingent.
For example, one of the objects of prayer is to secure blessings that God is willing to grant but that are made conditional on our asking.15 Alma cried out for mercy, and his pains resolved; he was no longer harrowed up by the memory of his sins.
His joy overwhelmed his pain—all because he cried out with faith in Jesus Christ.16 The activation energy needed for us is to have enough faith in Christ to sincerely ask God in prayer and accept His will and timing for the answer.Often, the activation energy needed for blessings requires more than just looking or asking; ongoing, repeated, faith-filled actions are required.
In the middle of the 19th century, Brigham Young directed a group of Latter-day Saints to explore and settle Arizona, an arid region in North America.
After reaching Arizona, the group ran out of water and feared they would perish.
They pled with God for help.
Soon rain and snow fell, allowing them to fill their barrels with water and provide for their livestock.
Grateful and refreshed, they returned to Salt Lake City rejoicing in the goodness of God.
Upon their return, they reported the details of their expedition to Brigham Young and pronounced their conclusion that Arizona was uninhabitable.After listening to the report, Brigham Young asked a man in the room what he thought about the expedition and the miracle.
That man, Daniel W. Jones, tersely replied, “I would have filled up, went on, and prayed again.” Brother Brigham put his hand on Brother Jones and said, “This is the man that shall take charge of the next trip to Arizona.”17We can all recall times when we have pushed on and prayed again—and blessings resulted.
The experiences of Michael and Marian Holmes illustrate these principles.
Michael and I served together as Area Seventies.
I was always thrilled whenever he was called on to pray in our meetings because his deep spirituality was readily apparent; he knew how to speak with God.
I loved to hear him pray.
Early in their marriage, though, Michael and Marian were not praying or attending church.
They were busy with three little children and a successful construction company.
Michael did not feel that he was a religious man.
One evening, their bishop came to their home and encouraged them to begin praying.After the bishop left, Michael and Marian decided that they would try to pray.
Before going to bed, they knelt at their bedside and, uncomfortably, Michael began.
After a few awkward words of prayer, Michael abruptly stopped, saying, “Marian, I can’t do this.” As he stood and began walking away, Marian grabbed him by the hand, dragged him back to his knees, and said, “Mike, you can do this.
Try again!” With this encouragement, Michael finished a short prayer.The Holmeses began to pray regularly.
They accepted a neighbor’s invitation to attend church.
As they walked into the chapel and heard the opening hymn, the Spirit whispered to them, “This is true.” Later, unseen and unasked, Michael helped haul some trash from the meetinghouse.
As he did, he felt a distinct impression, “This is My house.”Michael and Marian accepted Church callings and served in their ward and stake.
They were sealed to each other, and their 3 children were sealed to them.
More children followed, bringing the total to 12.
The Holmeses served as mission president and companion—twice.The first clunky prayer was a small but faith-filled action that triggered the blessings of heaven.
The Holmeses fed the flames of faith by attending church and serving.
Their dedicated discipleship over the years has led to a raging inferno that inspires to this day.A fire, however, must receive a constant supply of oxygen for the wood to ultimately release its full potential.
As demonstrated by Michael and Marian Holmes, faith in Christ requires ongoing action for the blaze to continue.
Small actions fuel our ability to walk along the covenant path and lead to the greatest blessings God can offer.
But oxygen flows only if we figuratively keep moving our feet.
Sometimes we need to make a bow and arrow before revelation comes as to where we should search for food.18 Sometimes we need to make tools before revelations come as to how to build a ship.19 Sometimes, at the direction of the Lord’s prophet, we need to bake a small cake from the little oil and flour we have to receive an unfailing cruse of oil and barrel of flour.20 And sometimes we need to “be still and know that [God is] God” and trust in His timing.21When you receive any blessing from God, you can conclude that you have complied with an eternal law governing reception of that blessing.22 But remember that the “irrevocably decreed” law is time insensitive, meaning blessings come on God’s timetable.
Even ancient prophets in search of their heavenly home23 “died in faith, not having received the promises, but having seen them afar off … [and] were persuaded … and embraced them.”24 If a desired blessing from God has not been received—yet—you do not need to go crazy, wondering what more you need to do.
Instead, heed Joseph Smith’s counsel to “cheerfully do all things that lie in [your] power; and then … stand still, with the utmost assurance, to see the … arm [of God] … revealed.”25 Some blessings are reserved for later, even for the most valiant of God’s children.26Six months ago a home-centered, Church-supported plan to learn doctrine, strengthen faith, and fortify individuals and families was introduced.
President Russell M. Nelson promised that the changes can help us survive spiritually, increase our gospel joy, and deepen our conversion to Heavenly Father and Jesus Christ.27 But it is up to us to claim these blessings.
We are each responsible to open and study Come, Follow Me—For Individuals and Families, along with the scriptures and other Come, Follow Me material.28 We need to discuss them with our family and friends and organize our Sabbath day to light a metaphorical fire.
Or we can leave the resources sitting in a pile in our homes with the potential energy trapped inside.I invite you to faithfully activate heavenly power to receive specific blessings from God.
Exercise the faith to strike the match and light the fire.
Supply the needed oxygen while you patiently wait on the Lord.
With these invitations, I pray that the Holy Ghost will guide and direct you so that you, like the faithful person described in Proverbs, will “abound with blessings.”29 I testify that your Heavenly Father and His Beloved Son, Jesus Christ, live, are concerned with your welfare, and delight to bless you, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
My dear brothers and sisters, on this radiant Easter morning my heart rejoices upon remembering the most marvelous, the most majestic, the most immeasurable act that has occurred in all of human history—the atoning sacrifice of our Lord, Jesus Christ.
The eminent words of the prophet Isaiah magnify the greatness and selflessness of the Savior’s condescension and sacrifice in behalf of all the children of God:“Surely he hath borne our griefs, and carried our sorrows: yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted.“But he was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities: the chastisement of our peace was upon him; and with his stripes we are healed.”1By voluntarily taking upon Himself the sins of all mankind, being cruelly nailed to the cross, and victoriously conquering death on the third day,2 Jesus gave a more sacred significance to the Passover ordinance that had been bestowed upon Israel in ancient times.3 In fulfillment of prophecy, He offered His own body and precious blood as the great and last sacrifice,4 validating the traditional symbols used in the celebration of the Lord’s Passover.5 In so doing, Christ experienced physical and spiritual suffering that is incomprehensible to the human mind.
The Savior Himself said:“For behold, I, God, have suffered these things for all, …“Which suffering caused myself, even God, the greatest of all, to tremble because of pain, and to bleed at every pore, and to suffer both body and spirit—and would that I might not drink the bitter cup, and shrink—“Nevertheless, glory be to the Father, and I partook and finished my preparations unto the children of men.”6Christ graciously fulfilled the will of the Father7 through His infinite and merciful sacrifice.
He overcame the sting of physical and spiritual death,8 introduced to the world through the Fall,9 offering us the glorious possibility of eternal salvation.10Jesus was the only Being capable of realizing this eternal and perfect sacrifice for all of us.11 He was chosen and foreordained in the Grand Council in Heaven, even before the world was formed.12 Furthermore, being born of a mortal mother, He inherited the physical death, but from God, as the Only Begotten Son of the Father, He inherited the power to lay down His own life and then to take it up again.13 Additionally, Christ lived a perfect life that was without blemish and, therefore, was exempt from the demands of divine justice.14 On some occasions the Prophet Joseph Smith taught:“Salvation could not come to the world without the mediation of Jesus Christ.“God … prepared a sacrifice in the gift of His own Son, who should be sent in due time to … open a door through which man might enter into the Lord’s presence.”15While through His sacrifice the Savior unconditionally removed the effects of physical death,16 He did not eliminate our personal responsibility to repent for the sins we commit.17 Rather, He extended to us a loving invitation to be reconciled to our Eternal Father.
Through Jesus Christ and His atoning sacrifice, we can experience a mighty change of mind and heart, bringing a fresh attitude, both toward God and toward life in general.18 When we sincerely repent of our sins and turn our hearts and will to God and His commandments, we can receive His forgiveness and feel the influence of His Holy Spirit in greater abundance.
Mercifully, we avoid having to experience the depth of suffering the Savior endured.19The gift of repentance is an expression of God’s kindness toward His children, and it is a demonstration of His incomparable power to help us overcome the sins we commit.
It is also an evidence of the patience and long-suffering our loving Father has for our mortal weakness and frailties.
President Russell M. Nelson, our beloved prophet, referred to this gift as “the key to happiness and peace of mind.”20My dear friends, I testify to you that as we genuinely repent of our sins,21 we allow the atoning sacrifice of Christ to become wholly effective in our life.22 We will become free from the bondage of sin, find joy in our earthly journey, and become eligible to receive eternal salvation, which was prepared from the foundation of the world for all who believe in Jesus Christ and come unto Him.23In addition to providing the majestic gift of salvation, the Savior offers us relief and comfort as we face our afflictions, temptations, and weaknesses of mortal life, including the circumstances we have experienced recently in the current pandemic.
I can assure you that Christ is ever aware of the adversities we experience in mortality.
He understands all of the bitterness, agony, and physical pain as well as the emotional and spiritual challenges we face.
The Savior’s bowels are filled with mercy, and He is always ready to succor us.
This is possible because He personally experienced and took upon Himself in the flesh the pain of our weakness and infirmities.24With meekness and humility of heart, He descended below all things and accepted being despised, rejected, and humiliated by men, having been wounded for our transgressions and iniquities.
He suffered these things for all, taking upon Himself the sins of the world,25 thus becoming our ultimate spiritual caregiver.As we draw nearer to Him, surrendering ourselves spiritually to His care, we will be able to take upon ourselves His yoke, which is easy, and His burden, which is light, thus finding that promised comfort and rest.
Furthermore, we will receive the strength we all need to overcome the hardships, weaknesses, and sorrows of life, which are exceedingly difficult to endure without His help and healing power.26 The scriptures teach us to “cast thy burden upon the Lord, and he shall sustain thee.”27 “And then may God grant unto [us] that [our] burdens may be light, through the joy of his Son.”28Near the end of last year, I learned of the passing of a dear couple, Mario and Regina Emerick, who were very faithful to the Lord and passed away four days apart from one another due to complications from COVID-19.One of their sons, who is currently serving as a bishop in Brazil, related the following to me: “It was so difficult to see my parents depart from this world in that condition, but I could clearly feel the hand of the Lord in my life amidst that tragedy, because I received strength and peace that transcended my understanding.
Through my faith in Jesus Christ and His Atonement, I received divine help to strengthen and comfort my family members and all those who helped us during this trying experience.
Even though the miracle that everyone hoped for did not occur, personally I am a witness of many other miracles that have occurred in my own life and in the lives of my family members.
I felt an inexplicable peace that penetrated the depths of my heart, giving me hope and confidence in the love of the Savior for me and in the plan of happiness of God for His children.
I learned that on the very most grief-filled days, the loving arms of the Savior are always extended when we seek Him with all our heart, power, mind, and strength.”My dear brothers and sisters, on this Easter Sunday, I bear my solemn witness that Jesus rose from the dead and that He lives.
I testify to you that through Him and His infinite Atonement, the Savior provided us the way to overcome death, both physically and spiritually.
In addition to these great blessings, He also offers us comfort and assurance in difficult times.
I assure you that as we put our trust in Jesus Christ and in His supernal atoning sacrifice, enduring in our faith to the end, we will enjoy the promises of our beloved Heavenly Father, who does everything within His power to help us return to His presence one day.
This is His work and His glory!29 I testify to you that Jesus is the Christ, the Redeemer of the world, the promised Messiah, the Resurrection and the Life.30 And I share these truths with you in His holy name, the Only Begotten of the Father, our Lord, Jesus Christ, amen.
We gather this beautiful Sabbath morning to speak of Christ, rejoice in His gospel, and support and sustain one another as we walk in “the way” of our Savior.1As members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, we assemble for this purpose every Sabbath day throughout the year.
If you are not a member of the Church, we welcome you most warmly and thank you for joining with us to worship the Savior and learn of Him.
Like you, we are striving—though imperfectly—to become better friends, neighbors, and human beings,2 and we seek to do this by following our Exemplar, Jesus Christ.We hope you can feel the sincerity of our testimony.
Jesus Christ lives!
He is the Son of the living God, and He directs prophets on the earth in our day.
We invite all to come, hear the word of God, and partake of His goodness!
I bear my personal witness that God is among us and that He will surely draw near to all who draw near to Him.3We consider it an honor to walk with you in the Master’s strait and narrow path of discipleship.The Art of Walking in a Straight LineThere is an oft-repeated theory that people who are lost walk in circles.
Not long ago, scientists at the Max Planck Institute for Biological Cybernetics tested that theory.
They took participants to a thick forest and gave them simple instructions: “Walk in a straight line.” There were no visible landmarks.
The test subjects had to rely solely on their sense of direction.How do you think they did?The scientists concluded, “People really [do] walk in circles when they do not have reliable cues to their walking direction.”4 When questioned afterwards, some participants self-confidently claimed that they had not deviated in the slightest.
Despite their high confidence, GPS data showed that they walked in loops as tight as 20 meters in diameter.Why do we do have such a hard time walking in a straight line?
Some researchers hypothesize that small, seemingly insignificant deviations in terrain make the difference.
Others have pointed to the fact that we all have one leg that is slightly stronger than the other.
“More likely,” however, we struggle to walk straight ahead “[because] of increasing uncertainty about where straight ahead is.”5Whatever the cause, it is human nature: without reliable landmarks, we drift off course.Straying from the PathIsn’t it interesting how small, seemingly insignificant factors can make a major difference in our lives?I know this from personal experience as a pilot.
Every time I started the approach to an airport, I knew that much of my remaining work would consist of making constant minor course corrections to safely direct the aircraft to our desired landing runway.You might have a similar experience when driving a vehicle.
Wind, road irregularities, imperfect wheel alignment, inattentiveness—not to mention the actions of other drivers—all can push you off your intended path.
Fail to pay attention to these factors and you may end up having a bad day.6This applies to us physically.It also applies to us spiritually.Most of the changes in our spiritual lives—both positive and negative—happen gradually, a step at a time.
Like the participants in the Max Planck study, we may not realize when we veer off course.
We may even have high confidence that we are walking a straight line.
But the fact is that without the help of landmarks to guide us, we inevitably deviate off course and end up in places we never thought we would be.This is true for individuals.
It is also true for societies and nations.
The scriptures are filled with examples.The book of Judges records that after Joshua died, “there arose another generation … which knew not the Lord, nor yet the works which he had done for Israel.”7Despite the astonishing heavenly interventions, visitations, rescues, and miraculous victories the children of Israel witnessed during the lifetimes of Moses and Joshua, within a generation the people had abandoned the Way and began walking according to their own desires.
And, of course, it did not take long before they paid the price for that behavior.Sometimes this falling away takes generations.
Sometimes it happens in a matter of years or even months.8 But we are all susceptible.
No matter how strong our spiritual experiences have been in the past, as human beings we tend to wander.
That has been the pattern from the days of Adam until now.Here’s the Good NewsBut all is not lost.
Unlike the wandering test subjects, we have reliable, visible landmarks that we can use to evaluate our course.And what are these landmarks?Surely they include daily prayer and pondering the scriptures and using inspired tools like Come, Follow Me.
Each day, we can approach the throne of God in humility and honesty.
We can ponder our actions and review the moments of our day—considering our will and desires in light of His.
If we have drifted, we plead with God to restore us, and we commit to do better.This time of introspection is an opportunity for recalibration.
It is a garden of reflection where we can walk with the Lord and be instructed, edified, and purified by the written and Spirit-revealed word of our Heavenly Father.
It is a sacred time when we remember our solemn covenants to follow the gentle Christ, when we assess our progress and align ourselves with the spiritual landmarks God has provided for His children.Think of it as your personal, daily restoration.
On our journey as pilgrims on the path of glory, we know how easy it is to fall away.
But just as minor deviations can draw us out of the Savior’s Way, so too can small and simple acts of realignment assuredly lead us back.
When darkness creeps into our lives, as it often does, our daily restoration opens our hearts to heavenly light, which illuminates our souls, chasing away shadows, fears, and doubts.Small Rudders, Large ShipsIf we seek it, surely “God shall give unto [us] knowledge by his Holy Spirit, yea, by the unspeakable gift of the Holy Ghost.”9 As often as we ask, He will teach us the Way and help us follow it.This, of course, takes a steady effort on our part.
We cannot be content with spiritual experiences of the past.
We need a steady flow.We can’t rely on others’ testimonies forever.
We must build our own.We need an ongoing, daily infusion of heavenly light.We need “times of refreshing.”10 Times of personal restoration.“Rolling waters” cannot long “remain impure.”11 To keep our thoughts and actions pure, we have to keep rolling!After all, the Restoration of the gospel and the Church is not something that happened once and is over.
It is an ongoing process—one day at a time, one heart at a time.As our days go, so go our lives.
One author put it this way: “A day is like a whole life.
You start out doing one thing, but end up doing something else, plan to run an errand, but never get there.
… And at the end of your life, your whole existence has that same haphazard quality, too.
Your whole life has the same shape as a single day.”12Do you want to change the shape of your life?Change the shape of your day.Do you want to change your day?Change this hour.Change what you think, feel, and do at this very moment.A small rudder can steer a large ship.13Small bricks can become magnificent mansions.Small seeds can become towering sequoias.Minutes and hours well spent are the building blocks of a life well lived.
They can inspire goodness, lift us from the captivity of imperfections, and lead us upward to the redemptive path of forgiveness and sanctification.The God of New BeginningsWith you, I lift my heart in gratitude for the magnificent gift of new opportunity, new life, new hope.We lift our voices in praise of our bountiful and forgiving God.
For surely He is a God of new beginnings.
The sublime end of all His labor is to help us, His children, succeed in our quest for immortality and eternal life.14We can become new creatures in Christ, for God has promised, “As often as my people repent will I forgive them their trespasses against me”15 and “remember them no more.”16My beloved brothers and sisters, dear friends, we all drift from time to time.But we can get back on course.
We can navigate our way through the darkness and trials of this life and find our way back to our loving Heavenly Father if we seek and accept the spiritual landmarks He has provided, embrace personal revelation, and strive for daily restoration.
This is how we become true disciples of our beloved Savior, Jesus Christ.As we do so, God will smile upon us.
“The Lord shall … bless thee in the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee.
The Lord shall establish thee an holy people unto himself.”17That we will seek daily restoration and continually strive to walk in the Way of Jesus Christ is my prayer.
In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
My dear brothers and sisters, during an exercise stress test, the heart’s workload is increased.
Hearts that can handle walking may struggle to support the demands of running uphill.
In this way, the stress test can reveal underlying disease that is not otherwise apparent.
Any issues identified can then be treated before they cause serious problems in daily life.The COVID-19 pandemic has certainly been a global stress test!
The test has shown mixed results.
Safe and effective vaccines have been developed.1 Medical professionals, teachers, caregivers, and others have sacrificed heroically—and continue to do so.
Many people have displayed generosity and kindness—and continue to do so.
Yet, underlying disadvantages have been manifest.
Vulnerable individuals have suffered—and continue to do so.
Those who work to address these underlying inequalities are to be encouraged and thanked.The pandemic is also a spiritual stress test for the Savior’s Church and its members.
The results are likewise mixed.
Our lives have been blessed by ministering in a “higher and holier way,”2 the Come, Follow Me curriculum, and home-centered, Church-supported gospel learning.
Many have provided compassionate help and comfort during these difficult times and continue to do so.3Yet, in some instances, the spiritual stress test has shown tendencies toward contention and divisiveness.
This suggests that we have work to do to change our hearts and to become unified as the Savior’s true disciples.
This is not a new challenge, but it is a critical one.4When the Savior visited the Nephites, He taught, “There shall be no disputations among you.
… He that hath the spirit of contention is not of me, but is of the devil, who is the father of contention, and he stirreth up the hearts of men to contend with anger, one with another.”5 When we contend with each other in anger, Satan laughs and the God of heaven weeps.6Satan laughs and God weeps for at least two reasons.
First, contention weakens our collective witness to the world of Jesus Christ and the redemption that comes through His “merits, … mercy, and grace.”7 The Savior said: “A new commandment I give unto you, That ye love one another.
… By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye have love one to another.”8 The converse is also true—everyone knows that we are not His disciples when we do not show love one to another.
His latter-day work is compromised when contention or enmity9 exists among His disciples.10 Second, contention is spiritually unhealthy for us as individuals.
We are robbed of peace, joy, and rest, and our ability to feel the Spirit is compromised.Jesus Christ explained that His doctrine was not “to stir up the hearts of men with anger, one against another; but [that His] doctrine [is] that such things should be done away.”11 If I am quick to take offense or respond to differences of opinion by becoming angry or judgmental, I “fail” the spiritual stress test.
This failed test does not mean that I am hopeless.
Rather, it points out that I need to change.
And that is good to know.After the Savior’s visit to the Americas, the people were unified; “there was no contention in all the land.”12 Do you think that the people were unified because they were all the same, or because they had no differences of opinion?
I doubt it.
Instead, contention and enmity disappeared because they placed their discipleship of the Savior above all else.
Their differences paled in comparison to their shared love of the Savior, and they were united as “heirs to the kingdom of God.”13 The result was that “there could not be a happier people … who had been created by the hand of God.”14Unity requires effort.15 It develops when we cultivate the love of God in our hearts16 and we focus on our eternal destiny.17 We are united by our common, primary identity as children of God18 and our commitment to the truths of the restored gospel.
In turn, our love of God and our discipleship of Jesus Christ generate genuine concern for others.
We value the kaleidoscope of others’ characteristics, perspectives, and talents.19 If we are unable to place our discipleship to Jesus Christ above personal interests and viewpoints, we should reexamine our priorities and change.We might be inclined to say, “Of course we can have unity—if only you would agree with me!” A better approach is to ask, “What can I do to foster unity?
How can I respond to help this person draw closer to Christ?
What can I do to lessen contention and to build a compassionate and caring Church community?”When love of Christ envelops our lives,20 we approach disagreements with meekness, patience, and kindness.21 We worry less about our own sensitivities and more about our neighbor’s.
We “seek to moderate and unify.”22 We do not engage in “doubtful disputations,” judge those with whom we disagree, or try to cause them to stumble.23 Instead, we assume that those with whom we disagree are doing the best they can with the life experiences they have.My wife practiced law for over 20 years.
As an attorney, she often worked with others who explicitly advocated opposing views.
But she learned to disagree without being rude or angry.
She might say to opposing counsel, “I can see we are not going to agree on this issue.
I like you.
I respect your opinion.
I hope you can offer me the same courtesy.” Often this allowed for mutual respect and even friendship despite differences.Even former enemies can become united in their discipleship of the Savior.24 In 2006, I attended the dedication of the Helsinki Finland Temple to honor my father and grandparents, who had been early converts to the Church in Finland.
Finns, including my father, had dreamed of a temple in Finland for decades.
At the time, the temple district would encompass Finland, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Belarus, and Russia.At the dedication, I learned something surprising.
The first day of general operation had been set aside for Russian members to perform temple ordinances.
It is difficult to explain just how astonishing this was.
Russia and Finland had fought many wars over the centuries.
My father distrusted and disliked not only Russia but all Russians.
He had expressed such feelings passionately, and his feelings were typical of Finnish enmity toward Russia.
He had memorized epic poems that chronicled 19th-century warfare between Finns and Russians.
His experiences during World War II, when Finland and Russia were again antagonists, did nothing to change his opinions.A year before the dedication of the Helsinki Finland Temple, the temple committee, consisting exclusively of Finnish members, met to discuss plans for the dedication.
During the meeting, someone observed that Russian Saints would be traveling several days to attend the dedication and might hope to receive their temple blessings before returning home.
The committee chairman, Brother Sven Eklund, suggested that the Finns could wait a little longer, that Russians could be the first members to perform temple ordinances in the temple.
All committee members agreed.
Faithful Latter-day Saint Finns delayed their temple blessings to accommodate Russian Saints.The Area President who was present at that temple committee meeting, Elder Dennis B. Neuenschwander, later wrote: “I have never been prouder of the Finns than I was at this moment.
Finland’s difficult history with its eastern neighbor … and their excitement of finally having [a temple] constructed on their own soil were put aside.
Permitting the Russians to enter the temple first [was] a statement of love and sacrifice.”25When I reported this kindness to my father, his heart melted and he wept, a very rare occurrence for that stoic Finn.
From that time until his death three years later, he never expressed another negative sentiment about Russia.
Inspired by the example of his fellow Finns, my father chose to place his discipleship of Jesus Christ above all other considerations.
The Finns were no less Finnish; the Russians were no less Russian; neither group abandoned their culture, history, or experiences to banish enmity.
They did not need to.
Instead, they chose to make their discipleship of Jesus Christ their primary consideration.26If they can do it, so can we.
We can bring our heritage, culture, and experiences to the Church of Jesus Christ.
Samuel did not shy away from his heritage as a Lamanite,27 nor did Mormon shy away from his as a Nephite.28 But each put his discipleship of the Savior first.If we are not one, we are not His.29 My invitation is to be valiant in putting our love of God and discipleship of the Savior above all other considerations.30 Let us uphold the covenant inherent in our discipleship—the covenant to be one.Let us follow the example of Saints from around the world who are successfully becoming disciples of Christ.
We can rely on Jesus Christ, who “is our peace, who … hath broken down the middle wall of partition between us; having abolished in his [atoning sacrifice] the enmity.”31 Our witness of Jesus Christ to the world will be strengthened, and we will remain spiritually healthy.32 I testify that as we “shun contention” and become “like-minded with the Lord in love and united with Him in faith,” His peace will be ours.33 In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
In his poetic hymn of praise, the Psalmist declared:“O Lord, thou hast searched me, and known me.“Thou knowest my downsitting and mine uprising, thou understandest my thought afar off.“Thou compassest my path and my lying down, and art acquainted with all my ways.”1In this poem’s semantic parallelism, the Psalmist praises the Lord’s divine attribute of omniscience because He truly knows every aspect of our souls.2 Being aware of all that is necessary for us in this life, the Savior invites us to seek Him in every thought and to follow Him with all our heart.3 This gives us the promise that we can walk in His light and that His guidance prevents the influence of darkness in our life.4Seeking Christ in every thought and following Him with all our heart requires that we align our mind and desires with His.5 The scriptures refer to this alignment as “stand[ing] fast in the Lord.”6 This course of action implies that we continually conduct our lives in harmony with the gospel of Christ and focus daily on everything that is good.7 Only then may we achieve “the peace of God, which passeth all understanding” and which will “keep [our] hearts and minds through Christ Jesus.”8 The Savior Himself instructed the elders of the Church in February 1831, “Treasure these things up in your hearts, and let the solemnities of eternity rest upon your minds.”9Despite our continuous efforts to seek out the Lord, inappropriate thoughts may penetrate our mind.
When such thoughts are permitted and even invited to stay, they can shape the desires of our heart and lead us to what we will become in this life and eventually to what we will inherit for eternity.10 Elder Neal A. Maxwell once emphasized this principle by saying, “Desires … determine the gradations in outcomes, including why ‘many are called, but few are chosen.’”11Our ancient and modern prophets have constantly reminded us to resist temptation in order to avoid losing our spiritual traction and becoming confused, disoriented, and disillusioned in life.Metaphorically speaking, yielding to temptation is like approaching a magnet with a metal object.
The magnet’s invisible force attracts the metal object and holds it tightly.
The magnet loses its power over it only when the metal object is placed far from it.
Therefore, just as the magnet is unable to exercise power over a faraway metal object, as we resist temptation, it fades away and loses its power over our mind and heart and, consequently, over our actions.This analogy reminds me of an experience that a very faithful member of the Church shared with me some time ago.
This member told me that when she awakened on one particular morning, an improper thought that she had never experienced before unexpectedly entered her mind.
Although it caught her completely by surprise, she reacted against the situation in a split second, saying to herself and to that thought, “No!” and replaced it with something good to divert her mind from the unwelcome thought.
She told me that as she exercised her moral agency in righteousness, that negative, involuntary thought immediately disappeared.When Moroni called upon the people to believe in Christ and to repent, he urged them to come unto the Savior with all their hearts, stripping themselves from all uncleanness.
Furthermore, Moroni invited them to ask God, with unbreakable determination, that they would not fall into temptation.12 Applying these principles in our lives requires more than a mere belief; it requires adjusting our minds and hearts to these divine principles.
Such adjustment requires a daily and constant personal effort, in addition to reliance on the Savior, because our mortal inclinations will not disappear on their own.
Fighting against temptation takes a lifetime of diligence and faithfulness.
But please know that the Lord is ready to assist us in our personal efforts and promises remarkable blessings if we endure to the end.During a particularly difficult time when Joseph Smith and his fellow prisoners in Liberty Jail did not have freedom in anything except for their thoughts, the Lord provided helpful counsel and a promise to them that are extended to all of us:“Let thy bowels also be full of charity towards all men [and women], and to the household of faith, and let virtue garnish thy thoughts unceasingly; then shall thy confidence wax strong in the presence of God; …“The Holy Ghost shall be thy constant companion, and thy scepter an unchanging scepter of righteousness and truth.”13In doing so, holy thoughts will continuously adorn our minds and pure desires will lead us to righteous actions.Moroni also reminded his people not to be consumed by their lusts.14 The word lust refers to an intense longing and improper desire for something.15 It encompasses any dark thoughts or evil desires that cause an individual to focus on selfish practices or worldly possessions rather than doing good, being kind, keeping the commandments of God, and so forth.
It is often manifested through the most carnal feelings of the soul.
The Apostle Paul identified some of these feelings, such as “uncleanness, lasciviousness, … hatred, … wrath, strife, … envyings, … and such like.”16 Besides all the evil aspects of lust, we cannot forget that the enemy uses it as a secret and deceptive weapon against us when he tempts us to do something wrong.My beloved brothers and sisters, I testify that as we rely upon the rock of salvation, the Savior of our souls, and follow Moroni’s counsel, our ability to control our thoughts will increase significantly.
I can assure you that our spiritual maturity will grow at an increasing pace, changing our heart, making us more like Jesus Christ.
Additionally, the influence of the Holy Ghost will be more intense and continuous in our life.
Then the enemy’s temptations, little by little, will lose their power over us, resulting in a happier and more pure and consecrated life.For those who, for whatever reason, fall into temptation and are dwelling upon unrighteous actions, I assure you that there is a way back, that there is hope in Christ.
A few years ago, I had the opportunity to visit with a dear member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints who went through a very difficult time in his life after committing a major transgression.
When I first saw him, I could see a sadness in his eyes, accompanied by a brightness of hope in his countenance.
His very expression reflected a humble and changed heart.
He had been a dedicated Christian and had been richly blessed by the Lord.
However, he had let a single improper thought invade his mind, which then led to others.
As he steadily became more and more permissive of these thoughts, soon they took root in his mind and began to grow deep in his heart.
He eventually acted upon these unworthy desires, which led him to make decisions against everything that was most precious in his life.
He told me that if he had not given place to that foolish thought to begin with, he would not have become vulnerable and susceptible to the temptations of the enemy—temptations that brought so much sadness in his life, at least for a period of time.Fortunately, like the prodigal son in the famous parable found in the gospel of Luke, “he came to himself” and woke up from that nightmare.17 He renewed his trust in the Lord and felt true contrition and had the desire to eventually return to the Lord’s fold.
That day we both felt the Savior’s redeeming love for us.
At the end of our brief visit, we were both overcome with emotion, and to this day, I remember the resplendent joy in his countenance when he left my office.My dear friends, when we resist the little temptations, which often come unexpectedly in our life, we are better equipped to avoid serious transgressions.
As President Spencer W. Kimball said: “Seldom does one enter into deeper transgression without first yielding to lesser ones, which open the door to the greater.
… ‘A clean field [does not] suddenly [become] weedy.’”18While preparing to accomplish His divine mission on earth, the Savior Jesus Christ exemplified the importance of constantly resisting everything that might dissuade us from realizing our eternal purpose.
After several unsuccessful attacks by the enemy, who attempted to divert Him from His mission, the Savior categorically dismissed the devil by saying: “Get thee hence, Satan.
… Then the devil leaveth him, and, behold, angels came and ministered unto him.”19Can you imagine, my brothers and sisters, what would happen if we were to derive strength and courage from the Savior and say, “No” and “Get thee hence” to unvirtuous thoughts that very first moment they come into our minds?
What would be the impact on the desires of our hearts?
How would our resulting actions keep us close to the Savior and allow the continued influence of the Holy Ghost in our lives?
I know that by following Jesus’s example, we will avoid many tragedies and undesirable behaviors that might cause family problems and disagreements, negative emotions and inclinations, perpetrating injustices and abuses, enslavement by evil addictions, and anything else that would be against the Lord’s commandments.In his historic and touching message from April this year, our dear prophet, President Russell M. Nelson, made a promise that all those who are willing to “hear Him”—hear Jesus Christ—and obey His commandments “will be blessed with additional power to deal with temptation, struggles, and weakness” and that our capacity to feel joy will increase, even during the increasing current turbulence.20I testify to you that the promises given by our dear prophet are the promises given by the Savior Himself.
I invite all of us to “hear Him” in every thought and follow Him with all our heart in order to obtain the strength and courage to say, “No” and “Get thee hence” to all the things that might bring unhappiness into our life.
If we do so, I promise that the Lord will send an added measure of His Holy Spirit to strengthen and comfort us and we may become individuals after the Lord’s own heart.21I bear my witness that Jesus Christ lives and that through Him, we may triumph over the enemy’s evil influences and qualify to live for eternity with the Lord and in the presence of our beloved Father in Heaven.
I testify of these truths with all my love for you and for our beautiful Savior, to whose name I give glory, honor, and praise evermore.
I say these things in the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.
In the Sacred Grove 200 years ago, young Joseph Smith saw and talked with God, the Eternal Father, and His Son, Jesus Christ.
From Them, Joseph learned about the true nature of the Godhead and of ongoing revelation as this supernal vision ushered in the latter-day “dispensation of the fulness of times.”1Approximately three years later, in response to earnest prayer on the evening of September 21, 1823, Joseph’s bedroom filled with light until it was “lighter than at noonday.”2 A personage appeared at his bedside, called the young boy by name, and declared “he was a messenger sent from the presence of God … and that his name was Moroni.”3 He instructed Joseph about the coming forth of the Book of Mormon.And then Moroni quoted from the book of Malachi in the Old Testament, with a little variation in the language used in the King James Version:“Behold, I will reveal unto you the Priesthood, by the hand of Elijah the prophet, before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord.
…“And he shall plant in the hearts of the children the promises made to the fathers, and the hearts of the children shall turn to their fathers.
If it were not so, the whole earth would be utterly wasted at his coming.”4Importantly, Moroni’s instruction to Joseph Smith about Elijah’s mission initiated temple and family history work in the latter days and was a key element in restoring “all things, which God hath spoken by the mouth of all his holy prophets since the world began.”5I pray for the assistance of the Holy Ghost as we learn together about the covenants, ordinances, and blessings that are available to us in the temples of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.The Return of ElijahI begin by asking a fundamental question: why was the return of Elijah important?“We learn from latter-day revelation that Elijah held the sealing power of the Melchizedek Priesthood”6 and “was the last prophet to do so before the time of Jesus Christ.”7The Prophet Joseph Smith explained: “The spirit, power, and calling of Elijah is, that ye have power to hold the key of the … fullness of the Melchizedek Priesthood … ; and to … obtain … all the ordinances belonging to the kingdom of God, even unto the turning of the hearts of the fathers unto the children, and the hearts of the children unto the fathers, even those who are in heaven.”8This sacred sealing authority is necessary so that “whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth shall be bound in heaven: and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven.”9Joseph further clarified: “How shall God come to the rescue of this generation?
He will send Elijah the prophet.
… Elijah shall reveal the covenants to seal the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the children to the fathers.”10Elijah appeared with Moses on the Mount of Transfiguration and conferred this authority upon Peter, James, and John.11 Elijah also appeared with Moses and Elias on April 3, 1836, in the Kirtland Temple and conferred the same priesthood keys upon Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery.12The restoration of the sealing authority by Elijah in 1836 was necessary to prepare the world for the Savior’s Second Coming and initiated a greatly increased and worldwide interest in family history research.Changing, Turning, and Purifying HeartsThe word heart is used over 1,000 times in the standard works.
This simple but significant word often denotes the inner feelings of an individual.
Our hearts—the sum total of our desires, affections, intentions, motives, and attitudes—define who we are and determine what we will become.
And the essence of the Lord’s work is changing, turning, and purifying hearts through gospel covenants and priesthood ordinances.We do not build or enter holy temples solely to have a memorable individual or family experience.
Rather, the covenants received and the ordinances performed in temples are essential to the sanctifying of our hearts and for the ultimate exaltation of God’s sons and daughters.Planting in the hearts of the children the promises made to the fathers—even Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob—turning the hearts of the children to their own fathers, conducting family history research, and performing vicarious temple ordinances are labors that bless individuals on both sides of the veil.
As we become anxiously engaged in this sacred work, we are obeying the commandments to love and serve God and our neighbors.13 And such selfless service helps us truly to “Hear Him!”14 and come unto the Savior.15The most sacred covenants and priesthood ordinances are received only in a temple—the house of the Lord.
Everything that is learned and all that is done in the temple emphasize the divinity of Jesus Christ and His role in Heavenly Father’s great plan of happiness.From the Inside OutPresident Ezra Taft Benson described an important pattern the Redeemer employs in bringing “to pass the immortality and eternal life of man.”16 He said: “The Lord works from the inside out.
The world works from the outside in.
The world would take people out of the slums.
Christ takes the slums out of people, and then they take themselves out of the slums.
The world would mold men by changing their environment.
Christ changes men, who then change their environment.
The world would shape human behavior, but Christ can change human nature.”17Covenants and priesthood ordinances are central in the ongoing process of spiritual rebirth and transformation; they are the means whereby the Lord works with each of us from the inside out.
Covenants that are honored steadfastly, remembered always, and written “with the Spirit of the living God … in fleshy tables of the heart”18 provide purpose and the assurance of blessings in mortality and for eternity.
Ordinances that are received worthily and remembered continually open the heavenly channels through which the power of godliness can flow into our lives.We do not come to the temple to hide from or escape the evils of the world.
Rather, we come to the temple to conquer the world of evil.
As we invite into our lives the “power of godliness”19 by receiving priesthood ordinances and making and keeping sacred covenants, we are blessed with strength beyond our own20 to overcome the temptations and challenges of mortality and to do and become good.The Fame of This House Shall SpreadThe first temple of this dispensation was constructed in Kirtland, Ohio, and dedicated on March 27, 1836.In a revelation to the Prophet Joseph Smith one week after the dedication, the Lord declared:“Let the hearts of all my people rejoice, who have, with their might, built this house to my name.
…“Yea the hearts of thousands and tens of thousands shall greatly rejoice in consequence of the blessings which shall be poured out, and the endowment with which my servants have been endowed in this house.“And the fame of this house shall spread to foreign lands; and this is the beginning of the blessing which shall be poured out upon the heads of my people.”21Please note the phrases the hearts of thousands and tens of thousands shall greatly rejoice and the fame of this house shall spread to foreign lands.
These were stunning declarations in April of 1836, when the Church had only a relative handful of members and one temple.Today in 2020, we have 168 operating temples.
Forty-nine additional temples are under construction or have been announced.
Houses of the Lord are being constructed on the “isles of the sea”22 and in countries and locations previously considered by many unlikely to warrant a temple.The endowment ceremony currently is presented in 88 languages and will become available in many additional languages as temples are built to bless more of God’s children.
In the next 15 years, the number of languages in which temple ordinances will be available likely will double.This year we will break ground and start construction on 18 temples.
In contrast, it took 150 years to build the first 18 temples, from the organization of the Church in 1830 to the dedication of the Tokyo Japan Temple by President Spencer W. Kimball in 1980.Consider the hastening of temple work that has occurred just during the lifetime of President Russell M. Nelson.
When President Nelson was born on September 9, 1924, the Church had six operating temples.When he was ordained an Apostle on April 7, 1984, 60 years later, 26 temples were operating, an increase of 20 temples in 60 years.When President Nelson was sustained as President of the Church, 159 temples were operating, an increase of 133 temples in the 34 years during which he served as a member of the Quorum of the Twelve.Since becoming the President of the Church on January 14, 2018, President Nelson has announced 35 new temples.Ninety-six percent of the existing temples have been dedicated during President Nelson’s lifetime; 84 percent have been dedicated since he was ordained an Apostle.Always Focus on the Things That Matter MostAs members of the Lord’s restored Church, we stand all amazed at the ever-accelerating pace of His work in the latter days.
And more temples are coming.Brigham Young prophesied, “To accomplish this work there will have to be not only one temple but thousands of them, and thousands and tens of thousands of men and women will go into those temples and officiate for people who have lived as far back as the Lord shall reveal.”23Understandably, the announcement of each new temple is a source of great joy and a reason to give thanks to the Lord.
However, our primary focus should be on the covenants and ordinances that can change our hearts and deepen our devotion to the Savior and not simply on the location or beauty of the building.The fundamental obligations that rest upon us as members of the Lord’s restored Church are (1) to “Hear Him!”24 and have our own hearts changed through covenants and ordinances and (2) to fulfill joyfully the divinely appointed responsibility to offer temple blessings to the entire human family on both sides of the veil.
With the Lord’s direction and help, indeed we will fulfill these sacred duties.The Building Up of ZionThe Prophet Joseph Smith declared:“The building up of Zion is a cause that has interested the people of God in every age; it is a theme upon which prophets, priests and kings have dwelt with peculiar delight; they have looked forward with joyful anticipation to the day in which we live; and fired with heavenly and joyful anticipations they have sung and written and prophesied of this our day; but they died without the sight; … it is left for us to see, participate in and help to roll forward the Latter-day glory.”25“The heavenly Priesthood will unite with the earthly, to bring about those great purposes; … a work that God and angels have contemplated with delight for generations past; that fired the souls of the ancient patriarchs and prophets; a work that is destined to bring about the destruction of the powers of darkness, the renovation of the earth, the glory of God, and the salvation of the human family.”26I solemnly testify that the Father and the Son appeared to Joseph Smith, and Elijah restored the sealing authority.
Sacred temple covenants and ordinances can strengthen us and purify our hearts as we “Hear Him!”27 and receive the power of godliness in our lives.
And I witness that this latter-day work will destroy the powers of darkness and bring about the salvation of the human family.
Of these truths I joyfully testify in the sacred name of the Lord Jesus Christ, amen.
Roughly 2,000 years ago, the Savior came down from the mountain after teaching the Beatitudes and other gospel principles.
As He walked, He was approached by a man sick with leprosy.
The man showed reverence and respect as he knelt before Christ, seeking relief from his affliction.
His request was simple: “Lord, if thou wilt, thou canst make me clean.”The Savior then extended His hand and, touching him, said, “I will; be thou clean.”1We learn here that our Savior always wants to bless us.
Some blessings may come immediately, others may take longer, and some may even come after this life, but blessings will come in due time.Much like the leper, we can find strength and comfort in this life by accepting His will and knowing that He wants to bless us.
We can find the strength to face any challenge, to overcome temptations, and to understand and endure our difficult circumstances.
Surely, in one of the most crushing moments of His life, the Savior’s strength to endure was deepened as He said to His Father, “Thy will be done.”2The leper did not make his request in a pretentious or demanding manner.
His words reveal a humble attitude, with high expectations but also with a sincere desire that the will of the Savior be done.
This is an example of the attitude with which we should come unto Christ.
We can come unto Christ with the certainty that His desire currently is and always will be the best for our mortal and eternal lives.
He has an eternal perspective that we do not have.
We must come unto Christ with a sincere desire that our will be swallowed up in the will of the Father, as His was.3 This will prepare us for eternal life.It is very hard to imagine the physical and emotional suffering that weighed on the leper who came unto the Savior.
Leprosy affects the nerves and skin, causing disfigurement and disability.
Additionally, it led to great social stigma.
Someone stricken with leprosy had to leave their loved ones and live isolated from society.
Lepers were considered unclean, both physically and spiritually.
For this reason, the law of Moses required that lepers wear torn clothing and call out, “Unclean!” as they walked.4 Sick and despised, lepers ended up living in abandoned houses or in the tombs.5 It is not hard to imagine that the leper who approached the Savior was broken.Sometimes—in one way or another—we too can feel broken, whether due to our own actions or those of others, due to circumstances we can or cannot control.
In such moments, we can place our will in His hands.Some years ago, Zulma—my wife, my better half, my best part—received some difficult news just two weeks before the wedding of one of our children.
She had a tumor in her parotid gland, and it was growing rapidly.
Her face began swelling, and she was to immediately undergo a delicate operation.
Many thoughts ran through her mind and weighed on her heart.
Was the tumor malignant?
How would her body recover?
Would her face become paralyzed?
How intense would the pain be?
Would her face be permanently scarred?
Would the tumor return once removed?
Would she be able to attend the wedding of our son?
As she lay in the operating room, she felt broken.In that very important moment, the Spirit whispered to her that she had to accept the will of the Father.
She then decided to place her trust in God.
She strongly felt that whatever the result, His will would be the best for her.
Soon she drifted into surgical sleep.Later, she wrote poetically in her diary: “On the surgeon’s table I bowed before Thee, and surrendering to Thy will, I fell asleep.
I knew I could trust Thee, knowing that nothing bad can come from Thee.”She found strength and comfort from surrendering her will to that of the Father.
That day, God blessed her greatly.Whatever our circumstances might be, we can exercise our faith to come unto Christ and find a God we can trust.
As one of my children, Gabriel, once wrote:According to the prophet, God’s face is brighter than the sunand His hair is whiter than snowand His voice roars like the rushing of a river,and next to Him man is nothing.
…I am crushed as I realize that even I am nothing.And only then do I fumble my way to a god I can trust.And only then do I discover the God I can trust.6A God we can trust emboldens our hope.
We can trust Him because He loves us and wants what is best for us in every circumstance.The leper came forward because of the power of hope.
The world gave him no solutions, not even comfort.
Thus, the Savior’s simple touch must have felt like a caress unto his entire soul.
We can only imagine the deep feelings of gratitude the leper must have had at the Savior’s touch, especially when he heard the words “I will; be thou clean.”The story states that “immediately his leprosy was cleansed.”7We too can feel the touch of the Savior’s loving, healing hand.
What joy, hope, and gratefulness come to our souls in knowing that He wants to help us to be clean!
As we come unto Him, God will come to our rescue, whether to heal us or to give us the strength to face any situation.At any rate, accepting His will—not our own—will help us understand our circumstances.
Nothing bad can come from God.
He knows what is best for us.
Perhaps He will not remove our burdens right away.
Sometimes He can make those burdens feel lighter, as He did with Alma and his people.8 Ultimately, because of covenants, the burdens will be lifted,9 either in this life or at the holy Resurrection.A sincere desire that His will be done, along with an understanding of our Redeemer’s divine nature, helps us develop the kind of faith that the leper showed in order to be cleansed.
Jesus Christ is a God of love, a God of hope, a God of healing, a God who wants to bless us and help us be clean.
That is what He wanted before coming to this earth when He volunteered to rescue us when we fall into transgression.
That is what He wanted in Gethsemane when He faced humanly incomprehensible pain during the agony of paying the price of sin.
That is what He wants now when He pleads on our behalf before the Father.10 That is why His voice echoes still: “Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.”11He can heal us and lift us up because He has the ability to do it.
He took upon Himself all the pains of body and spirit so that His bowels would be filled with mercy in order to be able to help us in all things and to heal us and lift us up.12 The words of Isaiah, as cited by Abinadi, put it beautifully and movingly:“Surely he has borne our griefs, and carried our sorrows.
…“… He was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities; the chastisement of our peace was upon him; and with his stripes we are healed.”13This same concept is taught in this poem:“O Carpenter of Nazareth,This heart, that’s broken past repair,This life, that’s shattered nigh to death,Oh, can You mend them, Carpenter?”And by His kind and ready hand,His own sweet life is woven throughOur broken lives, until they standA New Creation—“all things new.”“The shattered [substance] of [the] heart,Desire, ambition, hope, and faith,Mould Thou into the perfect part,O, Carpenter of Nazareth!”14If you feel that in any way you are not clean, if you feel broken, please know that you can be made clean, you can be mended, because He loves you.
Trust that nothing bad can come from Him.Because He “descended below all things,”15 He makes it possible for all things that have been broken in our lives to be mended, and thus we can be reconciled with God.
Through Him, all things are reconciled, both things that are on the earth and things that are in heaven, making “peace through the blood of his cross.”16Let us come unto Christ, taking all necessary steps.
As we do, may our attitude be one of saying, “Lord, if thou wilt, thou canst make me clean.” If we do so, we can receive the Master’s healing touch, alongside the sweet echo of His voice: “I will; be thou clean.”The Savior is a God we can trust.
He is the Christ, the Anointed One, the Messiah, of whom I testify in His holy name, even Jesus Christ, amen.
At this season of the year we particularly rejoice and reflect upon the Savior’s Atonement.
It is indeed the most supernal, mind-expanding, passionate doctrine this world or universe has ever known.
It is what gives hope and purpose to our lives.What then is the Atonement of Jesus Christ?
In one sense, it is a series of divine events that commenced in the Garden of Gethsemane, continued on the cross, and culminated with the Savior’s Resurrection from the tomb.
It was motivated by an incomprehensible love for each of us.
It required a being who was sinless; who had infinite power over the elements—even death; who possessed a boundless capacity to suffer the consequences of all our sins and ailments; and who, in fact, descended beneath it all.1 This was the mission of Jesus Christ—this was His Atonement.What then was its purpose?
It was to make it possible for us to return to God’s presence, become more like Him, and have a fulness of joy.
This was done by overcoming four obstacles:Physical deathSpiritual death caused by Adam and by our sinsOur afflictions and infirmitiesOur weaknesses and imperfectionsBut how can the Savior accomplish this without violating the laws of justice?Suppose for a moment a man contemplating an exhilarating free fall makes a rash decision and spontaneously jumps from a small plane.
After doing so, he quickly realizes the foolishness of his actions.
He wants to land safely, but there is an obstacle—the law of gravity.
He moves his arms with astounding speed, hoping to fly, but to no avail.
He positions his body to float or glide to slow the descent, but the law of gravity is unrelenting and unmerciful.
He tries to reason with this basic law of nature: “It was a mistake.
I will never do it again.” But his pleas fall on deaf ears.
The law of gravity knows no compassion; it makes no exceptions.
Fortuitously, though, the man suddenly feels something on his back.
His friend in the plane, sensing the moment of foolishness, had placed a parachute there just before the jump.
He finds the rip cord and pulls it.
Relieved, he floats safely to the ground.
We might ask, “Was the law of gravity violated, or did that parachute work within that law to provide a safe landing?”When we sin, we are like the foolish man who jumped from the plane.
No matter what we do on our own, only a crash-landing awaits us.
We are subject to the law of justice, which, like the law of gravity, is exacting and unforgiving.
We can be saved only because the Savior, through His Atonement, mercifully provides us with a spiritual parachute of sorts.
If we have faith in Jesus Christ and repent (meaning we do our part and pull the rip cord), then the protective powers of the Savior are unleashed on our behalf and we can land spiritually unharmed.This is possible, however, only because the Savior overcame the four obstacles that can prevent our spiritual progress.1.
Death.
He overcame death through His glorious Resurrection.
The Apostle Paul taught, “As in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive.”22.
Sin.
The Savior overcame sin and guilt for all those who repent.
So deep and expansive is His cleansing power that Isaiah promised, “Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow.”3On occasion, I have met with good Saints who have had trouble forgiving themselves, who have innocently but incorrectly placed limits on the Savior’s redemptive powers.
Unwittingly, they have converted an infinite Atonement to a finite one that somehow falls short of their particular sin or weakness.
But it is an infinite Atonement because it encompasses and circumscribes every sin and weakness, as well as every abuse or pain caused by others.Truman G. Madsen made this comforting observation:“If there are some of you who have been tricked into the conviction that you have gone too far, … that you have had the poison of sin which makes it impossible ever again to be what you could have been—then hear me.“I bear testimony that you cannot sink farther than the light and sweeping intelligence of Jesus Christ can reach.
I bear testimony that as long as there is one spark of the will to repent and to reach, he is there.
He did not just descend to your condition; he descended below it, ‘that he might be in all and through all things, the light of truth.’ [Doctrine and Covenants 88:6.
]”4One reason it is so essential to understand the Savior’s Atonement and its infinite implications is that with increased understanding comes an increased desire to forgive ourselves and others.Even though we may believe in Christ’s cleansing powers, the question often arises: “How do I know if I have been forgiven of my sins?” If we feel the Spirit, then that is our witness that we have been forgiven, or that the cleansing process is taking place.
President Henry B. Eyring taught, “If you have felt the influence of the Holy Ghost … , you may take it as evidence that the Atonement is working in your life.”5Some have asked, “But if I am forgiven, why do I still feel guilt?” Perhaps in God’s mercy the memory of that guilt is a warning, a spiritual “stop sign” of sorts that, at least for a time, cries out when additional temptations confront us: “Don’t go down that road.
You know the pain it can bring.” In this sense, it serves as a protection, not a punishment.Is it possible, then, to remember our sins and still be free of guilt?Alma remembered his sins, even years after he repented.
But when he cried unto Jesus for mercy, he said, “I could remember my pains no more; yea, I was harrowed up by the memory of my sins no more.”6How could he remember his sins but have no pain or guilt?
Because when we repent, we are “born of God.”7 We become, as the scriptures say, “new creatures”8 in Christ.
With perfect honesty we can now say, “I am not the man or woman who committed those past sins.
I am a new and transformed being.”3.
Afflictions and Infirmities.
Alma prophesied that Christ “shall go forth, suffering pains and afflictions and temptations of every kind.” Why?
“That his bowels may be filled with mercy, … that he may know according to the flesh how to succor his people according to their infirmities.”9How does He accomplish this?
Sometimes He removes the affliction, sometimes He strengthens us to endure, and sometimes He gives us an eternal perspective to better understand their temporary nature.
After Joseph Smith had languished in Liberty Jail for about two months, he finally cried out, “O God, where art thou?”10 Instead of providing instant relief, God responded, “My son, peace be unto thy soul; thine adversity and thine afflictions shall be but a small moment; and then, if thou endure it well, God shall exalt thee on high.”11Joseph now understood that this bitter experience was but a dot on the eternal spectrum.
With this enhanced vision, he wrote the Saints from that same prison cell, “Dearly beloved brethren, let us cheerfully do all things that lie in our power; and then may we stand still, with the utmost assurance, to see the salvation of God.”12 Because of the Savior’s Atonement, we can have an eternal perspective that gives meaning to our trials and hope for our relief.4.
Weaknesses and Imperfections.
Because of His Atonement, the Savior has enabling powers, sometimes referred to as grace,13 that can help us overcome our weaknesses and imperfections and thus assist us in our pursuit to become more like Him.Moroni so taught: “Yea, come unto Christ, and be perfected in him, … that by his grace ye may be perfect in Christ.”14 There seem at least two channels or means of availing ourselves of those enabling powers that can refine—even perfect—us.First, the saving ordinances.
The scriptures tell us, “In the ordinances thereof, the power of godliness is manifest.”15 Sometimes we may think of ordinances as a checklist—necessary for exaltation; but in truth each unleashes a godly power that helps us become more like Christ.
For example:When we are baptized and receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, we are made clean—thus becoming more holy like God.In addition, through the Holy Ghost, our minds may be enlightened and our hearts softened so we can think and feel more like Him.And when we are sealed as spouses, we inherit the right to “thrones, kingdoms, principalities, and powers”16 as gifts from God.A second channel for these enabling powers is the gifts of the Spirit.
Because of Christ’s Atonement, we are eligible to receive the gift of the Holy Ghost and its accompanying spiritual gifts.
These gifts are attributes of godliness; therefore, each time we acquire a gift of the Spirit, we become more like God.
No doubt that is why the scriptures enjoin us on multiple occasions to seek these gifts.17President George Q. Cannon taught: “No man ought to say, ‘Oh, I cannot help this; it is my nature.’ He is not justified in it, for the reason that God has promised to … give gifts that will eradicate [our weaknesses].
… If any of us are imperfect, it is our duty to pray for the gift that will make us perfect.”18In summary, the Savior’s Atonement gives us life for death, “beauty for ashes,”19 healing for hurt, and perfection for weakness.
It is heaven’s antidote to the obstacles and struggles of this world.In the Savior’s final week of mortality, He said, “In the world ye shall have tribulation: but be of good cheer; I have overcome the world.”20 Because the Savior performed His Atonement, there is no external force or event or person—no sin or death or divorce—that can prevent us from achieving exaltation, provided we keep God’s commandments.
With that knowledge, we can press forward with good cheer and absolute assurance that God is with us in this heavenly quest.I bear my witness that the Savior’s Atonement is not only infinite in scope but also individual in reach—that it can not only return us to God’s presence but also enable us to become like Him—the crowning goal of Christ’s Atonement.
Of that I bear my grateful and certain witness in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
My beloved brothers and sisters, my wife Wendy and I rejoice in being with you on this Sabbath morning.
Much has happened since our last general conference.
New temples have been dedicated in Concepción, Chile; Barranquilla, Colombia; and Rome, Italy.
We experienced a rich outpouring of the Spirit at these sacred events.I congratulate the many women (and men) who have recently read the Book of Mormon and discovered joy and hidden treasures.
I am inspired by reports about miracles received.I marvel at 11-year-old young men who, now as deacons, worthily pass the sacrament each Sunday.
They go to the temple along with our 11-year-old young women, who are now eagerly learning and serving as Beehives.
Both young men and young women are preaching gospel truths with clarity and conviction.I rejoice with children and youth who are helping to teach the gospel in their homes as they work with their parents to follow the home-centered, Church-supported curriculum.We received this photo of four-year-old Blake, who, early on a Saturday morning, grabbed a Church book and exclaimed, “I need to feed my spirit!”Blake, we are thrilled with you and others who are choosing to feed their spirits by feasting on the truths of the restored gospel of Jesus Christ.
And we delight in knowing that many are receiving the power of God in their lives as they worship and serve in the temple.As many of you know, our family experienced a tender separation three months ago when our daughter Wendy departed from this mortal life.
In the final days of her battle with cancer, I was blessed with the opportunity to have our farewell daddy-daughter conversation.I held her hands and told her how much I loved her and how grateful I was to be her father.
I said: “You married in the temple and faithfully honored your covenants.
You and your husband welcomed seven children into your home and raised them to be devout disciples of Jesus Christ, valiant Church members, and contributing citizens.
And they have chosen spouses of that same caliber.
Your daddy is very, very proud of you.
You have brought me much joy!”She quietly responded, “Thank you, Daddy.”It was a tender, tearful moment for us.
During her 67 years, we worked together, sang together, and often skied together.
But that evening, we talked of things that matter most, such as covenants, ordinances, obedience, faith, family, fidelity, love, and eternal life.We miss our daughter greatly.
However, because of the restored gospel of Jesus Christ, we do not worry about her.
As we continue to honor our covenants with God, we live in anticipation of our being with her again.
Meanwhile, we’re serving the Lord here and she is serving Him there—in paradise.1Actually, my wife and I visited Paradise earlier this year—Paradise, California, that is.
As it happened, our scheduled visit there came less than 40 hours after our daughter departed from this world.
We, along with Elder Kevin W. Pearson and his wife, June, were bolstered by the Saints of the Chico California Stake.
We learned of their great faith, their ministering, and the miracles that occurred even amidst their devastating losses from the most destructive wildfire in the history of California.While there, we spoke at length with a young police officer, John, who was one of many brave first responders.
He recalled the thick darkness that descended upon Paradise on November 8, 2018, as flames and embers raced through the town, devouring property and possessions like a scourge and leaving nothing but piles of ash and stark brick chimneys.For 15 hours, John drove through an impenetrable darkness that was streaked with javelins of threatening embers as he helped person after person, family after family escape to safety—all at the peril of his own life.
Yet during that strenuous ordeal, what terrified John most was his all-consuming question: “Where is my family?” After many long, terrifying hours of anguish, he finally learned of their safe evacuation.The account of John’s concern for his family has prompted me to speak today with those of you who may ask when approaching the end of your mortal life, “Where is my family?” In that coming day when you will complete your mortal probation and enter the spirit world, you will be brought face-to-face with that heart-wrenching question: “Where is my family?”Jesus Christ teaches the way back to our eternal home.
He understands our Heavenly Father’s plan of eternal progression better than any of us.
After all, He is the keystone of it all.
He is our Redeemer, our Healer, and our Savior.Ever since Adam and Eve were expelled from the Garden of Eden, Jesus the Christ has offered His mighty arm to help all who choose to follow Him.
Repeatedly, scriptures record that despite all kinds of sins from all kinds of people, His arms are outstretched still.2The spirit in each of us naturally yearns for family love to last forever.
Love songs perpetuate a false hope that love is all you need if you want to be together forever.
And some erroneously believe that the Resurrection of Jesus Christ provides a promise that all people will be with their loved ones after death.In truth, the Savior Himself has made it abundantly clear that while His Resurrection assures that every person who ever lived will indeed be resurrected and live forever,3 much more is required if we want to have the high privilege of exaltation.
Salvation is an individual matter, but exaltation is a family matter.Listen to these words spoken by the Lord Jesus Christ to His prophet: “All covenants, contracts, bonds, obligations, oaths, vows, performances, connections, associations, or expectations, that are not made and entered into and sealed by the Holy Spirit of promise … are of no efficacy, virtue, or force in and after the resurrection from the dead; for all contracts that are not made unto this end have an end when men are dead.”4So, what is required for a family to be exalted forever?
We qualify for that privilege by making covenants with God, keeping those covenants, and receiving essential ordinances.This has been true since the beginning of time.
Adam and Eve, Noah and his wife, Abraham and Sarah, Lehi and Sariah, and all other devoted disciples of Jesus Christ—since the world was created—have made the same covenants with God.
They have received the same ordinances that we as members of the Lord’s restored Church today have made: those covenants that we receive at baptism and in the temple.The Savior invites all to follow Him into the waters of baptism and, in time, to make additional covenants with God in the temple and receive and be faithful to those further essential ordinances.
All these are required if we want to be exalted with our families and with God forever.The anguish of my heart is that many people whom I love, whom I admire, and whom I respect decline His invitation.
They ignore the pleadings of Jesus Christ when He beckons, “Come, follow me.”5I understand why God weeps.6 I also weep for such friends and relatives.
They are wonderful men and women, devoted to their family and civic responsibilities.
They give generously of their time, energy, and resources.
And the world is better for their efforts.
But they have chosen not to make covenants with God.
They have not received the ordinances that will exalt them with their families and bind them together forever.7How I wish I could visit with them and invite them to consider seriously the enabling laws of the Lord.
I’ve wondered what I could possibly say so they would feel how much the Savior loves them and know how much I love them and come to recognize how covenant-keeping women and men can receive a “fulness of joy.”8They need to understand that while there is a place for them hereafter—with wonderful men and women who also chose not to make covenants with God—that is not the place where families will be reunited and be given the privilege to live and progress forever.
That is not the kingdom where they will experience the fulness of joy—of never-ending progression and happiness.9 Those consummate blessings can come only by living in an exalted celestial realm with God, our Eternal Father; His Son, Jesus Christ; and our wonderful, worthy, and qualified family members.I feel to say to my reticent friends:“In this life, you have never settled for second best in anything.
Yet, as you resist fully embracing the restored gospel of Jesus Christ, you are choosing to settle for second best.“The Savior said, ‘In my Father’s house are many mansions.’10 However, as you choose not to make covenants with God, you are settling for a most meager roof over your head throughout all eternity.”I would further entreat my reticent friends by saying:“Pour out your heart to God.
Ask Him if these things are true.
Make time to study His words.
Really study!
If you truly love your family and if you desire to be exalted with them throughout eternity, pay the price now—through serious study and fervent prayer—to know these eternal truths and then to abide by them.“If you are not sure you even believe in God, start there.
Understand that in the absence of experiences with God, one can doubt the existence of God.
So, put yourself in a position to begin having experiences with Him.
Humble yourself.
Pray to have eyes to see God’s hand in your life and in the world around you.
Ask Him to tell you if He is really there—if He knows you.
Ask Him how He feels about you.
And then listen.”One such dear friend of mine had limited experiences with God.
But he longed to be with his departed wife.
So he asked me to help him.
I encouraged him to meet with our missionaries in order to understand the doctrine of Christ and learn of gospel covenants, ordinances, and blessings.That he did.
But he felt the course they advised would require him to make too many changes in his life.
He said, “Those commandments and covenants are just too difficult for me.
Also, I can’t possibly pay tithing, and I don’t have time to serve in the Church.” Then he asked me, “Once I die, please do the necessary temple work for my wife and me so that we can be together again.”Thankfully, I am not this man’s judge.
But I do question the efficacy of proxy temple work for a man who had the opportunity to be baptized in this life—to be ordained to the priesthood and receive temple blessings while here in mortality—but who made the conscious decision to reject that course.My dear brothers and sisters, Jesus Christ invites us to take the covenant path back home to our Heavenly Parents and be with those we love.
He invites us to “come, follow me.”Now, as President of His Church, I plead with you who have distanced yourselves from the Church and with you who have not yet really sought to know that the Savior’s Church has been restored.
Do the spiritual work to find out for yourselves, and please do it now.
Time is running out.I testify that God lives!
Jesus is the Christ.
His Church and the fulness of His gospel have been restored to bless our lives with joy, here and hereafter.
I so testify in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
Once, when I was very young, I briefly thought about running away from home.
In a little-boy way, I felt no one loved me.My observant mother listened and assured me.
I was safely home.Have you ever felt like you are running from home?
Often, running from home means trust has been frayed or broken—trust with ourselves, with each other, with God.
When trust is challenged, we wonder how to trust again.My message today is, whether we are coming home or going home, God is coming to meet us.1 In Him we can find faith and courage, wisdom and discernment to trust again.
Likewise, He asks us to keep the light on for each other, to be more forgiving and less judgmental of ourselves and each other, so His Church can be a place where we feel at home, whether we are coming for the first time or returning.Trust is an act of faith.
God keeps faith with us.
Yet, human trust can be undermined or broken when:A friend, business associate, or someone we trust isn’t truthful, hurts us, or takes advantage of us.2A marriage partner is unfaithful.Perhaps unexpectedly, someone we love confronts death, injury, or illness.We face an unanticipated gospel question, perhaps something regarding Church history or Church policy, and someone says our church somehow hid or did not tell the truth.Other situations may be less specific but of equal concern.Perhaps we don’t see ourselves in the Church, don’t feel we fit, feel judged by others.Or, though we have done everything expected, things have yet to work out.
Despite our personal experiences with the Holy Ghost, we may not yet feel we know God lives or the gospel is true.Many today feel a great need to restore trust in human relationships and modern society.3As we reflect on trust, we know God is a God of truth and “canst not lie.”4 We know truth is a knowledge of things as they are, were, and are to come.5 We know continuing revelation and inspiration fit unchanging truth to changing circumstances.We know broken covenants break hearts.
“I did stupid things,” he says.
“Can you ever forgive me?” The husband and wife may hold hands, hoping to trust again.
In a different setting, a prison inmate reflects, “If I had kept the Word of Wisdom, I would not be here today.”We know that joy on the Lord’s covenant path and callings to serve in His Church are an invitation to feel God’s trust and love for us and each other.
Church members, including single adults, regularly serve across the Church and in our communities.By inspiration, a bishopric calls a young couple to serve in the ward nursery.
At first, the husband sits in the corner, detached and distant.
Gradually, he begins smiling with the children.
Later, the couple expresses gratitude.
Earlier, they say, the wife wanted children; the husband did not.
Now, serving has changed and united them.
It has also brought the joy of children into their marriage and home.In another city, a young mother with little children and her husband are surprised and overwhelmed but accept when she is called to serve as ward Relief Society president.
Shortly thereafter, ice storms cut electric power, leaving store shelves empty and homes as cold as iceboxes.
Because they have power and heat, this young family generously opens their home to several families and individuals to weather the storm.Trust becomes real when we do hard things with faith.
Service and sacrifice increase capacity and refine hearts.
Trust in God and each other brings heaven’s blessings.After surviving cancer, a faithful brother is hit by a car.
Instead of feeling sorry for himself, he prayerfully asks, “What can I learn from this experience?” In his intensive care unit, he feels prompted to notice a nurse worried for her husband and children.
A patient in pain finds answers as he trusts God and reaches out to others.As a brother with pornography concerns waits outside his stake president’s office, the stake president prays to know how to help.
A clear impression comes: “Open the door and let the brother in.” With faith and trust God will help, the priesthood leader opens the door and embraces the brother.
Each feels transforming love and trust for God and each other.
Fortified, the brother can begin to repent and change.While our individual circumstances are personal, gospel principles and the Holy Ghost can help us know if, how, and when to trust in others again.
When trust is broken or betrayed, disappointment and disillusionment are real; so is the need for discernment to know when faith and courage are merited to trust again in human relations.Yet, with respect to God and personal revelation, President Russell M. Nelson assures, “You do not have to wonder whom you can safely trust.”6 We can always trust God.
The Lord knows us better and loves us more than we know or love ourselves.
His infinite love and perfect knowledge of past, present, and future make His covenants and promises constant and sure.Trust what the scriptures call “in process of time.”7 With God’s blessing, process of time, and continuing faith and obedience, we can find resolution and peace.The Lord comforts:“Weeping may endure for a night, but joy cometh in the morning.”8“Cast your burdens [upon] the Lord and trust his constant care.”9“Earth has no sorrow that heav’n cannot heal.”10Trust God11 and His miracles.
We and our relationships can change.
Through the Atonement of Christ the Lord, we can put off our selfish natural self and become a child of God, meek, humble,12 full of faith and appropriate trust.
When we repent, when we confess and forsake our sins, the Lord says He remembers them no more.13 It is not that He forgets; rather, in a remarkable way, it seems He chooses not to remember them, nor need we.Trust God’s inspiration to discern wisely.
We can forgive others in the right time and way, as the Lord says we must,14 while being “wise as serpents, and harmless as doves.”15Sometimes when our hearts are most broken and contrite, we are most open to the comfort and guidance of the Holy Ghost.16 Condemnation and forgiveness both begin by recognizing a wrong.
Often condemnation focuses on the past.
Forgiveness looks liberatingly to the future.
“For God sent not his Son into the world to condemn the world; but that the world through him might be saved.”17The Apostle Paul asks, “Who shall separate us from the love of Christ?” He answers, “Neither death, nor life, … nor height, nor depth … shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord.”18 Yet, there is someone who can separate us from God and Jesus Christ—and that someone is us, ourselves.
As Isaiah says, “Your sins have hid his face from you.”19By divine love and divine law, we are responsible for our choices and their consequences.
But our Savior’s atoning love is “infinite and eternal.”20 When we are ready to come home, even when we are “yet a great way off,”21 God is ready with great compassion to welcome us, joyfully offering the best He has.22President J. Reuben Clark said, “I believe that our Heavenly Father wants to save every one of his children, … that in his justice and mercy he will give us the maximum reward for our acts, give us all that he can give, and in the reverse, I believe that he will impose upon us the minimum penalty which it is possible for him to impose.”23On the cross, even our Savior’s merciful plea to His Father was not an unconditional “Father, forgive them” but rather “Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do.”24 Our agency and freedom have meaning because we are accountable before God and ourselves for who we are, for what we know and do.
Thankfully, we can trust God’s perfect justice and perfect mercy to judge perfectly our intents and actions.We conclude as we began—with God’s compassion as we each come home to Him and each other.Do you remember Jesus Christ’s parable about a certain man who had two sons?25 One son left home and wasted his inheritance.
When he came to himself, this son sought to come home.
The other son, feeling he had kept the commandments “lo, these many years,”26 did not want to welcome his brother home.Brothers and sisters, would you please consider Jesus is asking us to open our hearts, our understanding, compassion, and humility, and to see ourselves in both roles?Like the first son or daughter, we may wander and later seek to return home.
God waits to welcome us.And like the other son or daughter, we are gently entreated by God to rejoice together as we each come home to Him.
He invites us to make our congregations, quorums, classes, and activities open, authentic, safe—home for each other.
With kindness, understanding, and mutual respect, we each humbly seek the Lord and pray and welcome His restored gospel blessings for all.Our life journeys are individual, but we can come again to God our Father and His Beloved Son through trust in God, each other, and ourselves.27 Jesus beckons, “Be not afraid, only believe.”28 As did the Prophet Joseph, undaunted may we trust in our Heavenly Father’s care.29 Dear brother, dear sister, dear friend, please look again for faith and trust—a miracle He promises you today.
In the sacred and holy name of Jesus Christ, amen.
Today I will speak on continuing revelation to prophets and continuing personal revelation to guide our lives.Sometimes we receive revelation even when we do not know the Lord’s purposes.
Shortly before Elder Jeffrey R. Holland was called to be an Apostle in June of 1994, I had a beautiful revelatory experience that he would be called.
I was a regional representative and could see no reason I would be given that knowledge.
But we were companions as young missionaries in England in the early 1960s, and I had a great love for him.
I considered the experience a tender mercy for me.
In recent years, I have wondered if the Lord was preparing me to be junior in the Twelve to an incredible missionary companion who was my junior companion when we were young missionaries.1 I sometimes warn young missionaries to be kind to their junior companions because they never know when they might be their senior companion.I have a firm testimony that this restored Church is led by our Savior, Jesus Christ.
He knows whom to call as His Apostles and in what order to call them.
He also knows how to prepare His senior Apostle to be the prophet and President of the Church.We were blessed this morning to hear our beloved prophet, President Russell M. Nelson, deliver a profound bicentennial proclamation to the world with respect to the Restoration of the fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ.2 This seminal declaration by President Nelson has made it clear that the Church of Jesus Christ owes its origin, existence, and direction for the future to the principle of continuous revelation.
The new proclamation represents a loving Father’s communication to His children.In an earlier day, President Spencer W. Kimball expressed the feelings I have today.
He stated: “Of all things, that … we should be most grateful [for] is that the heavens are indeed open and that the restored church of Jesus Christ is founded upon the rock of revelation.
Continuous revelation is indeed the very lifeblood of the gospel of the living Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ.”3The prophet Enoch foresaw the days in which we live.
The Lord acknowledged to Enoch the great wickedness that would prevail and prophesied of the “great tribulations” that would occur.
Nevertheless, the Lord promised, “But my people will I preserve.”4 “And righteousness will I send down out of heaven; and truth will I send forth out of the earth, to bear testimony of mine Only Begotten.”5President Ezra Taft Benson taught with great power that the Book of Mormon, the keystone of our religion, came forth out of the earth in fulfillment of the Lord’s pronouncement to Enoch.
The Father and the Son and angels and prophets appearing to the Prophet Joseph Smith were “directed by heaven to restore the necessary powers to the kingdom.”6The Prophet Joseph Smith received revelation after revelation.
Some have been addressed during this conference.
Many revelations received by the Prophet Joseph have been preserved for us in the Doctrine and Covenants.
All the standard works of the Church contain the mind and will of the Lord for us in this last dispensation.7In addition to these great foundational scriptures, we are blessed with continuing revelation to living prophets.
Prophets are “commissioned agents of the Lord, authorized to speak for Him.”8Some revelations are of monumental importance, and others enhance our understanding of essential divine truths and provide guidance for our day.9We are incredibly grateful for the revelation to President Spencer W. Kimball extending priesthood and temple blessings to all worthy male members of the Church in June 1978.10I have served with many of the Twelve who were present and participated when that precious revelation was received.
Each of them, in personal conversations, confirmed the powerful and uniting spiritual guidance President Kimball and they had experienced.
Many said it was the most powerful revelation they had received before or after that time.11Those of us currently serving in the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles have been blessed in our day as significant revelations have come through recent prophets.12 President Russell M. Nelson has been a commissioned agent of the Lord especially with respect to revelations to help families build sanctuaries of faith in their homes, gather scattered Israel on both sides of the veil, and bless endowed members in sacred temple ordinance matters.When important changes to bless our homes were announced at the October 2018 general conference, I testified “that in the deliberations of the Council of the First Presidency and Quorum of the Twelve Apostles in the temple, … after our beloved prophet petitioned the Lord for revelation … , a powerful confirmation was received by all.”13At that time, other revelations relating to sacred temple ordinances had been received but not announced or implemented.14 This guidance commenced with individual prophetic revelation to President Russell M. Nelson and tender and powerful confirmation to those participating in the process.
President Nelson specifically involved the sisters who preside over the Relief Society, Young Women, and Primary organizations.
The final guidance, in the temple, to the First Presidency and Quorum of the Twelve Apostles was profoundly spiritual and powerful.
We each knew we had received the mind, will, and voice of the Lord.15I declare with all solemnity that continuous revelation has been received and is being received through channels the Lord has established.
I testify the new proclamation President Nelson delivered this morning is a revelation to bless all people.We Extend an Invitation to All to Feast at the Lord’s TableWe also declare our heartfelt desire to be reunited with those who have been struggling with their testimonies, been less active, or had their names removed from Church records.
We desire to feast with you “upon the words of Christ” at the Lord’s table, to learn the things we all should do.16 We need you!
The Church needs you!
The Lord needs you!
Our heartfelt prayer is that you will join with us in worshipping the Savior of the world.
We know that some of you may have received offense, unkindness, or other conduct that is not Christlike.
We also know that some have had challenges to their faith that may not be fully appreciated, understood, or resolved.Some of our most stalwart and faithful members have suffered a challenge to their faith for a season.
I love the true account of W. W. Phelps, who had forsaken the Church and testified against the Prophet Joseph Smith in a Missouri court.
After repenting, he wrote to Joseph, “I know my situation, you know it, and God knows it, and I want to be saved if my friends will help me.”17 Joseph did forgive him, put him back to work, and lovingly wrote, “Friends at first are friends again at last.”18Brothers and sisters, regardless of your situation, please know that the Church and its members will welcome you back!Personal Revelation to Guide Our LivesPersonal revelation is available to all those who humbly seek guidance from the Lord.
It is as important as prophetic revelation.
Personal, spiritual revelation from the Holy Ghost has resulted in millions receiving the testimony necessary to be baptized and confirmed members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.Personal revelation is the profound blessing received following baptism when we are “sanctified by the reception of the Holy Ghost.”19 I can remember a special spiritual revelation when I was 15 years old.
My precious brother was seeking guidance from the Lord as to how to respond to our dear father, who did not want my brother to serve a mission.
I prayed with sincere intent too and received personal revelation of the truthfulness of the gospel.The Role of the Holy GhostPersonal revelation is based on spiritual truths received from the Holy Ghost.20 The Holy Ghost is the revealer and testifier of all truth, especially that of the Savior.
Without the Holy Ghost, we could not really know that Jesus is the Christ.
His seminal role is to bear witness of the Father and the Son and Their titles and Their glory.The Holy Ghost can influence everyone in a powerful way.21 This influence will not be constant unless one is baptized and receives the gift of the Holy Ghost.
The Holy Ghost serves also as a cleansing agent in the process of repentance and forgiveness.The Spirit communicates in marvelous ways.
The Lord used this beautiful description:“I will tell you in your mind and in your heart, by the Holy Ghost, which shall come upon you and which shall dwell in your heart.“Now, behold, this is the spirit of revelation.”22Although its impact can be incredibly powerful, it most often comes quietly as a still, small voice.23 The scriptures include many examples of how the Spirit influences our minds, including speaking peace to our minds,24 occupying our minds,25 enlightening our minds,26 and even sending a voice to our minds.27Some principles that prepare us to receive revelation include:Praying for spiritual guidance.
Reverently and humbly we need to seek and ask28 and be patient and submissive.29Preparing for inspiration.
This requires that we be in harmony with the Lord’s teachings and in compliance with His commandments.Partaking of the sacrament worthily.
When we do this, we witness and covenant with God that we take upon ourselves the name of His holy Son and that we remember Him and keep His commandments.These principles prepare us to receive, recognize, and follow the prompting and guidance of the Holy Ghost.
This includes the “peaceable things … which bringeth joy [and] … life eternal.”30Our spiritual preparation is greatly enhanced when we regularly study the scriptures and truths of the gospel and ponder in our minds the guidance we seek.
But remember to be patient and trust in the Lord’s timing.
Guidance is given by an omniscient Lord when He “deliberately chooses to school us.”31Revelation in Our Callings and AssignmentsThe Holy Ghost will also provide revelation in our callings and assignments.
In my experience, significant spiritual guidance most often comes when we are trying to bless others in fulfilling our responsibilities.I can remember as a young bishop receiving a desperate call from a married couple a short time before I was to catch an airplane for a business engagement.
I pled with the Lord before their arrival to know how I could bless them.
It was revealed to me the nature of the problem and the response I should give.
That revelatory guidance allowed me to fulfill the sacred responsibilities of my calling as bishop despite very limited availability of time.
Bishops all over the world also share these same kinds of experiences with me.
As a stake president, I not only received important revelation but also received personal correction that was necessary to accomplish the Lord’s purposes.I assure you that revelatory guidance can be received by each of us as we humbly labor in the Lord’s vineyard.
Most of our guidance comes from the Holy Ghost.
Sometimes and for some purposes, it comes directly from the Lord.
I personally testify that this is true.
Guidance for the Church, as a whole, comes to the President and prophet of the Church.We, as modern Apostles, have had the privilege of working and traveling with our current prophet, President Nelson.
I paraphrase what Wilford Woodruff said about the Prophet Joseph Smith; it is equally true of President Nelson.
I have seen “the workings of the Spirit of God with him, and the revelations of Jesus Christ unto him and the fulfillment of those revelations.”32My humble plea today is that each of us will seek continuing revelation to guide our lives and follow the Spirit as we worship God the Father in the name of our Savior, Jesus Christ, of whom I bear witness in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
My dear brothers and sisters, as October general conference approached last year, I prepared my conference talk to highlight the 100th anniversary of the vision of the spirit world given to President Joseph F. Smith on October 3, 1918.A few days after I had submitted my talk for translation, my beloved eternal companion, Barbara, completed her mortal probation and passed into the spirit world.As the days have turned into weeks, then months, and now a year since Barbara’s passing, I find myself more fully appreciating this scripture: “Thou shalt live together in love, insomuch that thou shalt weep for the loss of them that die.”1 Barbara and I were blessed to “live together in love” for 67 years.
But I have learned in a very real way what it means to “weep for the loss” of those we love.
Oh, how I love and miss her!I suppose most of us fail to fully appreciate what others do for us until they are gone.
I knew Barbara was always busy, but I did not fully understand the constant family, Church, and community demands upon her time.
There were daily consecrated efforts repeated thousands of times through the years that kept our family functioning.
And through it all, no one in our family ever heard her raise her voice or say an unkind word.Floods of memories have washed over me this past year.
I have thought about the physically demanding choice she made to be the mother of seven children.
Being a homemaker was the only career she ever wanted, and she was in every aspect a consummate professional.Often I have wondered how she kept track of our children and me.
Meal preparation alone was a truly daunting task, not to mention activities such as doing the mountains of laundry our family generated every week and keeping shoes and appropriately sized clothing on the children.
We all turned to her on a myriad of other issues that were important to us.
And because they were important to us, they were also important to her.
She was, in a word, magnificent—as a wife, as a mother, as a friend, as a neighbor, and as a daughter of God.Now that she has moved on, I am happy that I chose to sit next to her when I came home from the office during the last few months of her life, to hold her hand as we watched the endings of some of her favorite musicals—over and over again because Alzheimer’s would not allow her to remember that she had seen them just the afternoon before.
Memories of those special hand-holding sessions are now very, very precious to me.Brothers and sisters, please do not miss an opportunity to look into the eyes of your family members with love.
Children and parents, reach out to each other and express your love and appreciation.
Like me, some of you may wake up one day to discover that the time for such important communication has passed.
Live each day together with hearts filled with gratitude, good memories, service, and much love.During this past year, I have pondered more intently than ever before about our Heavenly Father’s plan.
In teaching his son Corianton, Alma referred to it as “the great plan of happiness.”2The word that keeps coming to my mind now when I consider the plan is “reunion.” It is a plan, designed by our loving Father in Heaven, that has at its center the grand and glorious possibilities of family reunion—of eternally reuniting husbands and wives, parents and children, generation upon generation in the household of God.That thought brings me comfort and the assurance that I will be with Barbara again.
Although she physically suffered toward the end of her life, her spirit was strong, noble, and pure.
She had prepared herself in all things so that when the day comes, she can stand before “the pleasing bar of God,”3 full of confidence and peaceful assurance.
But here I am, in two days 91 years old, and I’m still wondering, “Am I ready?
Am I doing everything I need to do to be able to hold her hand once again?”The most simple, basic certainty of life is this: We are all going to die.
Whether we die old or young, easy or hard, wealthy or indigent, beloved or lonely, nobody escapes death.A few years ago, President Gordon B. Hinckley said something that is particularly meaningful about this: “How sweet is the assurance, how comforting is the peace that come from the knowledge that if we marry right and live right, our relationship will continue, notwithstanding the certainty of death and the passage of time.”4I certainly married right.
Of that there can be no doubt.
But that isn’t enough, according to President Hinckley.
I also have to live right.5Today, “living right” can be a pretty confusing concept, especially if you spend much time on social media, where any voice can declare real truths or false concepts about God and His plan for His children.
Thankfully, members of the Church have eternally true gospel principles to know how to live so that we might be better prepared when we must die.Just a few months before I was born, my Apostle grandfather, Elder Melvin J. Ballard, gave a talk that, for some people, captured the essence of what it means to live right.
Titled “Struggle for the Soul,” his talk focused on the ongoing battle between our physical bodies and our eternal spirits.He said, “The greatest conflict that any man or woman will ever have … will be the battle that is had with self,” explaining that Satan, “the enemy of our souls,” attacks us through “the lusts, the appetites, the ambitions of the flesh.”6 So the primary battle is between our divine and spiritual nature and the carnal natural man.
Brothers and sisters, remember, we can receive spiritual help through the influence of the Holy Ghost that can “teach you all things.”7 Help can also come through the power and blessings of the priesthood.Now, I ask, how is this battle going with each one of you?President David O. McKay said: “Man’s earthly existence is but a test as to whether he will concentrate his efforts, his mind, his soul, upon things which contribute to the comfort and gratification of his physical nature, or whether he will make as his life’s [purpose] the acquisition of spiritual qualities.”8This battle between our carnal and our spiritual natures isn’t a new thing.
In his final sermon to his people, King Benjamin taught that “the natural man is an enemy to God, and has been from the fall of Adam, and will be, forever and ever, unless he yields to the enticings of the Holy Spirit, and putteth off the natural man and becometh a saint through the atonement of Christ the Lord.”9The Apostle Paul taught that “they that are after the flesh do mind the things of the flesh; but they that are after the Spirit the things of the Spirit.“For to be carnally minded is death; but to be spiritually minded is life and peace.”10It seems clear to me that one of the most important things we can learn in this life is how to emphasize our eternal spiritual nature and control our evil desires.
This should not be that difficult.
After all, our spirit, which has been around a lot longer than our physical body, has already been successful in choosing righteousness over evil in the premortal realm.
Before this earth was formed, we lived in the spirit world as sons and daughters of Heavenly Parents, who loved us and continue to love us now.And yes, we did have to make life-changing decisions and choices in that premortal realm.
Every person who has ever lived or ever will live on this planet made an essential decision to choose to accept Heavenly Father’s plan for our salvation.
So we all came to earth with a proven track record of a successful spiritual nature and eternal destiny.Think about that for a moment.
This is who you and I really are and who you have always been: a son or daughter of God, with spiritual roots in eternity and a future overflowing with infinite possibilities.
You are—first, foremost, and always—a spiritual being.
And so when we choose to put our carnal nature ahead of our spiritual nature, we are choosing something that is contrary to our real, true, authentic spiritual selves.Still, there’s no question that flesh and earthly impulses complicate the decision-making.
With a veil of forgetfulness drawn between the premortal spirit world and this mortal world, we can lose sight of our relationship to God and our spiritual nature, and our carnal nature can give priority to what we want right now.
Learning to choose the things of the Spirit over the things of the flesh is one of the primary reasons why this earthly experience is part of Heavenly Father’s plan.
It’s also why the plan is built upon the solid, sure foundation of the Atonement of the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ so that our sins, including the errors we make when we yield to the flesh, can be overcome through constant repentance and we can live spiritually focused.
Now is the time to control our bodily appetites to comply with the spiritual doctrine of Christ.
That is why we must not procrastinate the day of our repentance.11Repentance, therefore, becomes an indispensable weapon in our battle over self.
Just last general conference, President Russell M. Nelson referred to this battle and reminded us that “when we choose to repent, we choose to change!
We allow the Savior to transform us into the best version of ourselves.
We choose to grow spiritually and receive joy—the joy of redemption in Him.
When we choose to repent, we choose to become more like Jesus Christ!”12Every night as I review my day in prayer with my Father in Heaven, I ask to be forgiven if I did anything wrong and promise to try to be better tomorrow.
I believe this regular daily repentance helps my spirit remind my body who is in charge of me.Another resource is the weekly opportunity we all have to refresh ourselves spiritually by partaking of the sacrament in remembrance of the Atonement and the perfect love that our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, has for us.Brothers and sisters, I encourage you to slow down a bit and think about where you are now in subjugating your carnal nature and empowering your divine, spiritual nature so when the time comes, you may pass into the spirit world to a joyful reunion with your loved ones—for which I testify and humbly pray in the sacred name of the Lord Jesus Christ, amen.
The programs and activities of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints are becoming ever more home centered and Church supported, as evidenced by the series of adjustments announced in recent general conferences.
President Russell M. Nelson has counseled us: “There is much more to come.
… Eat your vitamin pills.
Get your rest.
It’s going to be exciting.”1I pray for and invite the help of the Holy Ghost as we consider together several basic implications of these ongoing adjustments in the Lord’s restored Church.Home-Centered and Church-Supported Gospel LearningElder Craig C. Christensen and I were companions recently in a priesthood leadership conference, and he used two simple questions to emphasize the principle of becoming home centered and Church supported.
He suggested that instead of returning to our homes after Church meetings on Sunday and asking, “What did you learn about the Savior and His gospel today at church?” we should ask in our Church meetings, “What did you learn about the Savior and His gospel this week in your home?” Proper Sabbath-day observance, the new curriculum, and the adjusted meeting schedule all help us to learn the gospel both in our homes and at church.Each member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has an individual responsibility to learn and live the Lord’s teachings and to receive by proper authority the ordinances of salvation and exaltation.
We should not expect the Church as an organization to teach or tell us everything we need to know and do to become devoted disciples and endure valiantly to the end.2 Rather, our personal responsibility is to learn what we should learn, to live as we know we should live, and to become who the Master would have us become.
And our homes are the ultimate setting for learning, living, and becoming.As a child, Joseph Smith learned of God from his family.
His efforts to discover God’s will for him caused Joseph to search for the truth among many different Christian denominations, ponder diligently the scriptures, and pray sincerely to God.
As young Joseph Smith returned to his home from the Sacred Grove immediately after the appearance of the Father and the Son, he spoke first with his mother.
As he “leaned up to the fireplace, [his] mother inquired what the matter was.
[Joseph] replied, ‘Never mind, all is well—I am well enough off.’ [He] then said to [his] mother, ‘I have learned for myself.’”3 Joseph’s experience provides a powerful pattern of learning that each of us should emulate.
We too need to learn for ourselves.The overarching purpose of Heavenly Father’s plan is for His children to become more like Him.
Accordingly, He provides us with essential opportunities to grow and progress.
Our commitment to learn and live according to truth is increasingly important in a world that is “in commotion”4 and is ever more confused and wicked.
We cannot expect simply to attend Church meetings and participate in programs and thereby receive all of the spiritual edification and protection that will enable us “to withstand in the evil day.”5“Parents have a sacred duty to rear their children in love and righteousness.”6 Inspired Church leaders, teachers, and activities help individual and family efforts to grow spiritually.
And though we all need help pressing forward on the covenant path, the ultimate responsibility for developing spiritual strength and stamina rests upon each one of us.Recall how Nephi, son of the prophet Lehi, desired to see, hear, and know for himself by the power of the Holy Ghost the things his father had learned in the vision of the tree of life.
Nephi clearly needed and was blessed in his youth by the example and teachings of his “goodly parents.”7 Yet, just like Joseph Smith, he yearned to learn and know for himself.If all you or I know about Jesus Christ and His restored gospel is what other people teach or tell us, then the foundation of our testimony of Him and His glorious latter-day work is built upon sand.8 We cannot rely exclusively upon or borrow gospel light and knowledge from other people—even those whom we love and trust.Significantly, the Prophet Joseph Smith taught that each Latter-day Saint needs to understand for himself or herself “the designs and purposes of God in our coming into the world.”9“Could we read and comprehend all that has been written from the days of Adam, on the relation of man to God and angels in a future state, we should know very little about it.
Reading the experience of others, or the revelation given to them, can never give us a comprehensive view of our condition and true relation to God.
Knowledge of these things can only be obtained by experience through the ordinances of God set forth for that purpose.”10Enabling the accomplishment of this grand spiritual objective for individuals and families is one of the fundamental reasons the programs and activities of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints are becoming more home centered and Church supported in this specific season of the dispensation of the fulness of times.Implications of Home-Centered and Church-Supported LearningLet me summarize a few basic implications of gospel learning becoming increasingly home centered and Church supported.The ultimate missionary training center is in our homes; secondary missionary training centers are located in Provo, Manila, Mexico City, and in other locations.
Our most instructive Sunday School classes should be our individual and family study in our places of residence; helpful but secondary Sunday School classes are held in our meetinghouses.Family history centers now are in our homes.
Supplemental support for our family history research work also is available in our meetinghouses.Vital temple preparation classes occur in our homes; important but secondary temple preparation classes also may be conducted periodically in our meetinghouses.Making our homes sanctuaries wherein we can “stand in holy places”11 is essential in these latter days.
And as important as home-centered and Church-supported learning is for our spiritual strength and protection today, it will be even more vital in the future.Home-Centered and Church-Supported Learning and Temple PreparationPlease consider how the principle of “home centered and Church supported” applies to our individual preparation and worthiness to receive sacred ordinances and covenants in the house of the Lord.Indeed, temple preparation is most effective in our homes.
But many Church members are unsure about what appropriately can and cannot be said regarding the temple experience outside of the temple.President Ezra Taft Benson described why this uncertainty exists:“The temple is a sacred place, and the ordinances in the temple are of a sacred character.
Because of its sacredness we are sometimes reluctant to say anything about the temple to our children and grandchildren.“As a consequence, many do not develop a real desire to go to the temple, or when they go there, they do so without much background to prepare them for the obligations and covenants they enter into.“I believe a proper understanding or background will immeasurably help prepare our youth for the temple … [and] will foster within them a desire to seek their priesthood blessings just as Abraham sought his.”12Two basic guidelines can help us achieve the proper understanding emphasized by President Benson.Guideline #1.
Because we love the Lord, we always should speak about His holy house with reverence.
We should not disclose or describe the special symbols associated with the covenants we receive in sacred temple ceremonies.
Neither should we discuss the holy information that we specifically promise in the temple not to reveal.Guideline #2.
The temple is the house of the Lord.
Everything in the temple points us to our Savior, Jesus Christ.
We may discuss the basic purposes of and the doctrine and principles associated with temple ordinances and covenants.President Howard W. Hunter counseled: “Let us share with our children the spiritual feelings we have in the temple.
And let us teach them more earnestly and more comfortably the things we can appropriately say about the purposes of the house of the Lord.”13Across the generations, from the Prophet Joseph Smith to President Russell M. Nelson, the doctrinal purposes of temple ordinances and covenants have been taught extensively by Church leaders.14 A rich reservoir of resources exists in print, audio, video, and other formats to help us learn about initiatory ordinances, endowments, marriages, and other sealing ordinances.15 Information also is available about following the Savior by receiving and honoring covenants to keep the law of obedience, the law of sacrifice, the law of the gospel, the law of chastity, and the law of consecration.16 All Church members should become familiar with the excellent materials available at temples.ChurchofJesusChrist.org.President Russell M. Nelson emphasized the vital balance between the sacred nature of temple ceremonies and the valuable information about temples published by the Church that is accurate, appropriate, and available publicly.
He explained: “I recommend that members … read entries in the Bible Dictionary that are related to the temple, such as ‘Anoint,’ ‘Covenant,’ ‘Sacrifices,’ and ‘Temple.’ One may also wish to read Exodus, chapters 26–29, and Leviticus, chapter 8.
The Old Testament, as well as the books of Moses and Abraham in the Pearl of Great Price, underscores the antiquity of temple work and the enduring nature of its ordinances.”17So, imagine that your son or daughter asks, “Someone at school told me that strange clothing is worn in the temple.
Is that right?” A short video is available on temples.ChurchofJesusChrist.org entitled “Sacred Temple Clothing.” This excellent resource explains how from ancient times men and women have embraced sacred music, different forms of prayer, symbolic religious clothing, gestures, and rituals to express their innermost feelings of devotion to God.
Thus, the Church supports home-centered preparation for the glorious blessings of the temple through basic instruction and remarkable resources such as this video.
Much useful information is available to you.18As we strive to walk in the meekness of the Lord’s Spirit,19 we will be blessed to understand and achieve in our homes the necessary balance between what is and what is not appropriate to discuss about sacred temple ordinances and covenants.Promise and TestimonyI suspect that some of you may be wondering if your gospel learning actually can become home centered and Church supported.
Perhaps you are the only member of the Church in your home, or have an unsupportive spouse, or are a single parent, or live alone as a single or divorced Latter-day Saint, and you may have questions about how these principles apply to you.
You may be a husband and a wife looking at each other and questioning, “Can we do this?”Yes, you can do this!
I promise that enabling blessings will flow into and be evident in your life.
Doors will open.
The light will shine.
Your capacity will be increased to persevere diligently and patiently.I joyfully witness that compensating blessings will come as we strive to fulfill our individual responsibility to learn and love the restored gospel of Jesus Christ.
We truly can “be prepared to obtain every needful thing.”20 I so promise and testify in the sacred name of the Lord Jesus Christ, amen.
For more than a century, the national bicycle racing teams of Great Britain had been the laughingstock of the cycling world.
Mired in mediocrity, British riders had managed only a handful of gold medals in 100 years of Olympic competitions and had been even more underwhelming in cycling’s marquee event, the three-week long Tour de France—where no British rider had prevailed in 110 years.
So sorry was the plight of British riders that some bike manufacturers refused to even sell bikes to the Brits, fearing it would forever sully their hard-won reputations.
And despite devoting enormous resources into cutting-edge technology and every newfangled training regimen, nothing worked.Nothing, that is, until 2003, when a small, largely unnoticed change occurred that would forever alter the trajectory of British cycling.
That new approach would also reveal an eternal principle—with a promise—regarding our ofttimes perplexing mortal quest to improve ourselves.
So what happened in British cycling that has great relevance to our personal pursuit to be better daughters and sons of God?In 2003, Sir Dave Brailsford was hired.
Unlike previous coaches who attempted dramatic, overnight turnarounds, Sir Brailsford instead committed to a strategy he referred to as “the aggregation of marginal gains.” This entailed implementing small improvements in everything.
That meant constantly measuring key statistics and targeting specific weaknesses.It’s somewhat akin to the prophet Samuel the Lamanite’s notion of “walk[ing] circumspectly.”1 This broader, more holistic view avoids the trap of being myopically fixated on just the obvious problem or sin at hand.
Said Brailsford, “The whole principle came from the idea that if you broke down everything you could think of that goes into riding a bike, and then improved it by 1 percent, you will get a significant increase when you put them all together.”2His approach aligns well with that of the Lord, who taught us the criticalness of the 1 percent—even at the expense of the 99 percent.
Of course, He was teaching the gospel imperative to seek out individuals in need.
But what if we applied that same principle to the very sweet and savory second principle of the gospel, repentance?
Rather than being stymied by the churn and dramatic swings between sin and repentance, what if our approach was to narrow our focus—even as we broadened it?
Instead of trying to perfect everything, what if we tackled just one thing?For example, what if in your new wide-angle awareness, you discover you have neglected a daily reading of the Book of Mormon?
Well, instead of desperately plowing through all 531 pages in one night, what if we committed instead to read just 1 percent of it—that’s just five pages a day—or another manageable goal for your situation?
Could aggregating small but steady marginal gains in our lives finally be the way to victory over even the most pesky of our personal shortcomings?
Can this bite-sized approach to tackling our blemishes really work?Well, acclaimed author James Clear says this strategy puts the math squarely in our favor.
He maintains that “habits are the ‘compound interest of self-improvement.’ If you can get just one percent better at something each day, by the end of a year … you will be 37 times better.”3Brailsford’s small gains began with the obvious, such as equipment, kit fabrics, and training patterns.
But his team didn’t stop there.
They continued to find 1 percent improvements in overlooked and unexpected areas such as nutrition and even maintenance nuances.
Over time, these myriads of micro-betterments aggregated into stunning results, which came faster than anyone could have imagined.
Truly, they were onto the eternal principle of “line upon line, precept upon precept, here a little and there a little.”4Will little adjustments work that “mighty change”5 that you desire?
Properly implemented, I’m 99 percent certain they will!
But the one caveat with this approach is that for small gains to aggregate, there must be a consistent, day-in and day-out effort.
And although we won’t likely be perfect, we must be determined to mirror our persistence with patience.
Do that, and the sweet rewards of increased righteousness will bring you the joy and peace you seek.
As President Russell M. Nelson has taught: “Nothing is more liberating, more ennobling, or more crucial to our individual progression than is a regular, daily focus on repentance.
Repentance is not an event; it is a process.
It is the key to happiness and peace of mind.
When coupled with faith, repentance opens our access to the power of the Atonement of Jesus Christ.”6As to repentance’s prerequisite of faith, the scriptures are clear.
All that’s initially required is a mere “particle of faith.”7 And if we can muster this “mustard seed”8 mentality, we too can expect unexpected and exceptional improvements in our lives.
But remember, just as we would not attempt to go from being Attila the Hun to Mother Teresa overnight, so too should we reorient our patterns of improvement incrementally.
Even if the changes needed in your life are wholesale, begin at a small scale.
That’s especially true if you are feeling overwhelmed or discouraged.This process is not always accomplished in a linear fashion.
Even among the most determined there may be setbacks.
Having experienced the frustration of this in my own life, I know that it can sometimes feel like 1 percent forward and 2 percent back.
Yet if we remain undaunted in our determination to consistently eke out those 1 percent gains, He who has “carried our sorrows”9 will surely carry us.Obviously, if we are involved in grievous sins, the Lord is clear and unequivocal; we need to stop, get help from our bishop, and turn away from such practices immediately.
But as Elder David A. Bednar enjoined: “Small, steady, incremental spiritual improvements are the steps the Lord would have us take.
Preparing to walk guiltless before God is one of the primary purposes of mortality and the pursuit of a lifetime; it does not result from sporadic spurts of intense spiritual activity.”10So, does this pocket-sized approach to repentance and real change really work?
Is the proof in the pedaling, so to speak?
Consider what’s happened to British cycling in the past two decades since implementing this philosophy.
British cyclists have now won the storied Tour de France an astonishing six times.
During the past four Olympic Games, Great Britain has been the most successful country across all cycling disciplines.
And in the recently concluded Tokyo Olympics, the UK won more gold medals in cycling than any other country.Photographs of British cyclists by (clockwise from top left) Friedemann Vogel, John Giles, and Greg Baker/Getty ImagesBut far outshining worldly silver or gold, our precious promise down our roadway to the eternities is that we will indeed “triumph in Christ.”11 And as we commit to making small but steady improvements, we are promised “a crown of glory that fadeth not away.”12 With basking in that undimmable luster beckoning, I invite you to examine your life and see what’s stagnated or slowed you on the covenant pathway.
Then look broader.
Seek modest but makeable fixes in your life that might result in the sweet joy of being just a little better.Remember, David used just one small stone to take down a seemingly invincible giant.
But he had four other stones at the ready.
Similarly, Alma the Younger’s wicked disposition and eternal destiny were altered by just one simple, salient thought—a remembrance of his father’s teachings about the saving grace of Jesus Christ.
And so it is with our Savior, who, though sinless, “received not of the fulness at first, but continued from grace to grace, until he received a fulness.”13It is He who knows when a sparrow falls that is likewise focused on the minute as well as the momentous moments in our lives and who is ready right now to assist you in whatever your 1 percent quest is coming out of this conference.
Because every effort to change we make—no matter how tiny it seems to us—just might make the biggest difference in our lives.To this end, Elder Neal A. Maxwell taught, “Each assertion of a righteous desire, each act of service, and each act of worship, however small and incremental, adds to our spiritual momentum.”14 Truly, it is by small, simple, and, yes, even just 1 percent things that great things can be brought to pass.15 Ultimate victory is 100 percent certain, “after all we can do,”16 through the might, merits, and mercy of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ.
I so testify in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
Brothers and sisters, thank you for all you do to become, and to help others become, true followers of Jesus Christ and enjoy the blessings of the holy temple.
Thank you for your goodness.
You are wonderful; you are beautiful.It is my prayer that we will recognize the confirming influence of the Holy Ghost as we come to fully understand that we are children of God.
“The Family: A Proclamation to the World” states: “All human beings—male and female—are created in the image of God.
Each is a beloved spirit son or daughter of heavenly parents, and, as such, each has a divine nature and destiny.”1 We are “choice spirits who were reserved to come forth in the fulness of times to take part in laying the foundations of the great latter-day work.”2 President Russell M. Nelson declared: “You were taught in the spirit world to prepare you for anything and everything you would encounter during this latter part of these latter days (see D&C 138:56).
That teaching endures within you!”3You are elect sons and daughters of God.
You have the power to overcome the adversary.
The adversary, however, is aware of who you are.
He knows of your divine heritage and seeks to limit your earthly and heavenly potential by using the three Ds:DeceptionDistractionDiscouragementDeceptionThe adversary used the tool of deception in the days of Moses.
The Lord declared to Moses:“Behold, thou art my son.
…“I have a work for thee, … and thou art in the similitude of mine Only Begotten.”4Shortly after this glorious vision, Satan attempted to deceive Moses.
The words he used are interesting: “Moses, son of man, worship me.”5 The deception was not only in the invitation to worship Satan but also in the way he described Moses as a son of man.
Remember, the Lord had just told Moses he was a son of God, created in the similitude of the Only Begotten.The adversary was relentless in his attempts to deceive Moses, but Moses resisted, saying, “Depart from me, Satan, for this one God only will I worship, which is the God of glory.”6 Moses remembered who he was—a son of God.The Lord’s words to Moses apply to you and to me.
We are created in God’s own image, and He has a work for us to do.
The adversary attempts to deceive by having us forget who we truly are.
If we do not understand who we are, then it is difficult to recognize who we can become.DistractionThe adversary also attempts to distract us away from Christ and His covenant path.
Elder Ronald A. Rasband shared the following: “The adversary’s design is to distract us from spiritual witnesses, while the Lord’s desire is to enlighten and engage us in His work.”7In our day, there are many distractions, including Twitter, Facebook, virtual reality games, and much more.
These technological advances are amazing, but if we are not careful, they can distract us from fulfilling our divine potential.
Using them appropriately can bring forth the power of heaven and allow us to witness miracles as we seek to gather scattered Israel on both sides of the veil.Let us be careful and not casual in our use of technology.8 Continually seek for ways that technology can draw us closer to the Savior and allow us to accomplish His work as we prepare for His Second Coming.DiscouragementLastly, the adversary desires for us to become discouraged.
We may get discouraged when we compare ourselves to others or feel we are not living up to expectations, including our own.When I started my doctoral program, I felt discouraged.
The program accepted only four students that year, and the other students were brilliant.
They had higher test scores and more work experience at senior management positions, and they exuded confidence in their abilities.
After my first two weeks in the program, feelings of discouragement and doubt began to take hold, almost overwhelming me.I decided that if I were going to complete this four-year program, I would finish reading the Book of Mormon each semester.
Each day as I read, I recognized the Savior’s declaration that the Holy Ghost would teach me all things and would bring all things to my remembrance.9 It reaffirmed who I am as a son of God, reminded me not to compare myself with the others, and gave me the confidence in my divine role to succeed.10My dear friends, please do not let anyone steal your happiness.
Do not compare yourself to others.
Please remember the loving words of the Savior: “Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you: not as the world giveth, give I unto you.
Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid.”11So how do we do it?
How do we find this peace, remember who we are, and overcome the three Ds of the adversary?First, remember that the first and great commandment is to love God with our heart, might, mind, and strength.12 All that we do should be motivated by our love for Him and for His Son.
As we develop our love for Them by keeping Their commandments, our capacity to love ourselves and to love others will increase.
We will begin to serve family, friends, and neighbors because we will see them as the Savior sees them—as sons and daughters of God.13Second, pray unto the Father in the name of Jesus Christ every day, every day, every day.14 It is through prayer that we can feel the love of God and show our love for Him.
Through prayer we express gratitude and ask for the strength and the courage to submit our will to God’s and be guided and directed in all things.I encourage you to “pray unto the Father with all the energy of heart, that ye may be filled with this love, … that ye may become the sons [and daughters] of God; that when he shall appear we shall be like him.”15Third, read and study the Book of Mormon every day, every day, every day.16 My Book of Mormon studies tend to go better when I read with a question in mind.
As we read with a question, we can receive revelation and recognize that the Prophet Joseph Smith spoke truth when he declared, “The Book of Mormon [is] the most correct of any book on earth, … and a man [or a woman will] get nearer to God by abiding by its precepts, than by any other book.”17 The Book of Mormon contains the words of Christ and helps us remember who we are.Lastly, prayerfully partake of the sacrament every week, every week, every week.
It is through covenants and priesthood ordinances, including the sacrament, that the power of godliness is manifest in our lives.18 Elder David A. Bednar taught: “The ordinance of the sacrament is a holy and repeated invitation to repent sincerely and to be renewed spiritually.
The act of partaking of the sacrament, in and of itself, does not remit sins.
But as we prepare conscientiously and participate in this holy ordinance with a broken heart and a contrite spirit, then the promise is that we may always have the Spirit of the Lord to be with us.”19As we humbly partake of the sacrament, we remember Jesus’s suffering in that sacred garden called Gethsemane and His sacrifice on the cross.
We express gratitude to the Father for sending His Only Begotten Son, our Redeemer, and show our willingness to keep His commandments and to always remember Him.20 There is a spiritual enlightenment associated with the sacrament—it is personal, it is powerful, and it is needed.My friends, I promise that as we strive to love God with all our heart, pray in the name of Jesus Christ, study the Book of Mormon, and prayerfully partake of the sacrament, we will have the ability, with the strength of the Lord, to overcome the deceptive practices of the adversary, to minimize distractions that limit our divine potential, and to resist the discouragement that diminishes our capacity to feel the love of our Heavenly Father and His Son.
We will come to fully understand who we are as sons and daughters of God.Brothers and sisters, I share with you my love and declare unto you my witness that I know Heavenly Father lives and Jesus is the Christ.
I love Them.
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is God’s kingdom upon the earth.
We have a divine appointment to gather Israel and prepare the world for the Second Coming of the Messiah.
In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
Recently a billboard in Salt Lake City caught my eye.
It advertised a furniture and interior design company.
It stated simply, “Serving the Finest Homes in Salt Lake City.”The message was catchy—what is a “finest home”?
I found myself thinking about that question, especially with regard to the children my wife, Kathy, and I raised and the children they are raising today.
Like parents everywhere, we worried about and prayed over our family.
We still do.
We earnestly want the very best for them.
How can they and their children live in the finest homes?
I have reflected on the homes of Church members Kathy and I have been privileged to visit.
We have been invited into homes in Korea and Kenya, in the Philippines and Peru, in Laos and Latvia.
Let me share four observations about fine homes.First, from the Lord’s perspective, establishing the finest homes has everything to do with the personal qualities of the people who live there.
These homes aren’t made fine in any important or lasting way by their furniture or by the net worth or social status of the people who own them.
The finest characteristic of any home is the image of Christ reflected in the home’s residents.
What matters is the interior design of the souls of the inhabitants, not the structure itself.The attributes of Christ are acquired in the “process of time”1 by intentional progress along the covenant path.
Christlike attributes adorn the lives of those who strive to live with goodness.
They fill homes with gospel light, whether the floor is mud or marble.
Even if you are the only one in your household who follows the injunction to “seek after these things,”2 you can contribute to the spiritual furnishings of your family’s home.We follow the Lord’s counsel to “organize [ourselves]; prepare every needful thing; and establish a house” by organizing, preparing, and establishing our spiritual lives, not our real estate.
As we patiently pursue the Savior’s covenant path, our home becomes “a house of glory, a house of order, [and] a house of God.”3Second, residents in the finest homes make time to study the scriptures and the words of living prophets every day.
President Russell M. Nelson has invited us to “transform” and “remodel” our homes through gospel study.4 His invitation recognizes that fine homes house the tender, vital work of personal growth and remodeling our weaknesses.
Daily repentance is a transformative tool that enables us to grow a little kinder, more loving, and more understanding.
Studying the scriptures brings us closer to the Savior, whose generous love and grace assist us with our growth.The Bible, Book of Mormon, and Pearl of Great Price tell the stories of families, so it’s not surprising that those divine volumes are incomparable handbooks for constructing the finest homes.
They chronicle the worries of parents, the perils of temptation, the triumph of righteousness, the trials of famine and abundance, and the horrors of war and rewards of peace.
Again and again the scriptures show us how families succeed through righteous living and how they fail by pursuing other paths.Third, fine homes follow the blueprint created by the Lord for His finest home, the temple.
Building a temple begins with basic steps—clearing brush and leveling land.
Those initial efforts to ready the ground might be compared to keeping the basic commandments.
The commandments are the foundation on which discipleship is built.
Steady discipleship leads us to become firm, steadfast, and immovable,5 like the steel framework for a temple.
This steady framework allows the Lord to send His Spirit to change our hearts.6 Experiencing a mighty change of heart is like adding beautiful features to the interior of a temple.As we continue in faith, the Lord gradually changes us.
We receive His image in our countenance and begin to reflect the love and beauty of His character.7 As we become more like Him, we will feel at home in His house, and He will feel at home in ours.We can maintain our home’s close connection to His home by qualifying for and using a temple recommend as frequently as circumstances allow.
As we do so, the holiness of the Lord’s house rests in our house as well.The magnificent Salt Lake Temple stands nearby.
Built by pioneers with rudimentary tools, local materials, and endless hard work, the temple was constructed from 1853 to 1893.
The best the early Church members had to offer in engineering, architecture, and interior design created a masterpiece that is recognized by millions.Nearly 130 years have passed since the temple was dedicated.
As Elder Gary E. Stevenson noted yesterday, the engineering principles used to design the temple have been replaced by newer, safer standards.
Failure to enhance the temple’s engineering and repair structural weaknesses would betray the confidence of the pioneers, who did all they could and then left the temple’s care to succeeding generations.The Church has commenced a four-year restoration project to improve the temple’s structural and seismic strength.8 The foundation, floors, and walls will be fortified.
The best engineering knowledge available today will bring the temple up to modern standards.
We will not be able to see the structural changes, but their effects will be real and important.
In all of this work, the temple’s beautiful interior design features will be preserved.We should follow the example being given to us by the Salt Lake Temple renovation and take time to evaluate our own spiritual seismic engineering to make sure it is up to date.
Periodic self-assessment, coupled with asking the Lord, “What lack I yet?”9 can help each of us contribute to the building of a finest home.Fourth, the finest homes are refuges from the storms of life.
The Lord has promised that those who keep the commandments of God “prosper in the land.”10 God’s prosperity is the power to press forward despite the problems of life.In 2002 I learned an important lesson about problems.
While in Asunción, Paraguay, I met with the city’s stake presidents.
At that time, Paraguay faced a terrible financial crisis, and many Church members were suffering and unable to make ends meet.
I had not been to South America since my mission and had never been to Paraguay.
I had been serving in that Area Presidency for only a few weeks.
Apprehensive about my inability to give guidance to those stake presidents, I asked them to tell me only what was going well in their stakes.
The first stake president told me about things that were going well.
The next mentioned things that were going well and a few problems.
By the time we got to the last stake president, he mentioned only a series of vexing challenges.
As the stake presidents explained the magnitude of the situation, I grew increasingly concerned, nearly desperate, about what to say.Just as the last stake president was finishing his comments, a thought came into my mind: “Elder Clayton, ask them this question: ‘Presidents, of the members in your stakes who pay a full tithing, pay a generous fast offering, magnify their callings in the Church, actually visit their families as home teachers or visiting teachers11 every month, hold family home evening, study the scriptures, and hold family prayer each day, how many have problems they cannot address on their own without the Church having to step in and solve their problems for them?’”Responsive to the impression I had received, I asked the stake presidents that question.They looked at me in surprised silence and then said, “Pues, ninguno,” meaning, “Well, no one.” They then told me that none of the members who did all of those things had problems they were incapable of resolving on their own.
Why?
Because they lived in the finest homes.
Their faithful living provided them the strength, vision, and heavenly help they needed in the economic turmoil that surrounded them.This doesn’t mean the righteous won’t become ill, suffer accidents, face business reversals, or confront many other difficulties in life.
Mortality always brings challenges, but time after time I have seen that those who strive to obey the commandments are blessed to find their way forward with peace and hope.
Those blessings are available to everyone.12David declared, “Except the Lord build the house, they labour in vain that build it.”13 Wherever you live, whatever your house looks like, and whatever the composition of your family, you can help build the finest home for your family.
The restored gospel of Jesus Christ provides the plans for that home.
The Savior is the perfect engineer, builder, and interior designer.
His project is the perfection and eternal joy of our souls.
With His loving help, your soul can be all He wants it to be and you can be the finest version of yourself, prepared to establish and live in a finest home.I gratefully testify that the God and Father of us all lives.
His Son, the Lord Jesus Christ, is the Savior and Redeemer of all mankind.
They love us perfectly.
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the Lord’s kingdom on earth.
Living prophets and apostles guide it today.
The Book of Mormon is true.
The restored gospel of Jesus Christ is the perfect blueprint for establishing finest homes.
In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
Several years ago, our five-year-old son came to me and announced, “Dad, I’ve figured something out.
I’ve figured out that soon for you is a very long time for me.”When the Lord or His servants say things like, “Not many days hence” or “The time is not far distant,” it can literally mean a lifetime or longer.1 His time, and frequently His timing, is different from ours.
Patience is key.
Without it, we can neither develop nor demonstrate faith in God unto life and salvation.
But my message today is that, even while we are patiently waiting upon the Lord, there are certain blessings that come to us immediately.When Alma and his people were captured by the Lamanites, they prayed for deliverance.
They were not immediately delivered, but while they patiently waited for deliverance, the Lord showed forth His goodness with certain immediate blessings.
He immediately softened the hearts of the Lamanites so they wouldn’t slay them.
He also strengthened Alma’s people and eased their burdens.2 When they finally were delivered, they traveled to Zarahemla, where they recounted their experience to an amazed audience.
The people of Zarahemla marveled, and “when they thought of the immediate goodness of God, and his power in delivering Alma and his brethren out of … bondage, they did raise their voices and give thanks to God.”3The immediate goodness of God comes to all who call upon Him with real intent and full purpose of heart.
This includes those who cry out in earnest desperation, when deliverance seems so distant and suffering seems prolonged, even intensified.So it was with a young prophet who suffered to the brink in the dank of a dungeon before finally crying out: “O God, where art thou?
… How long shall thy hand be stayed … ?
Yea, O Lord, how long … ?”4 In response, the Lord did not immediately deliver Joseph, but He did immediately pronounce peace.5God also gives immediate hope for eventual deliverance.6 No matter what, no matter where, in Christ and through Christ there is always hope smiling brightly before us.7 Immediately before us.Moreover, He has promised, “My kindness shall not depart from thee.”8Above all, God’s love is immediate.
With Paul, I testify that nothing can “separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus.”9 Even our sins, though they may separate us from His Spirit for a time, cannot separate us from the constancy and immediacy of His divine paternal love.These are some of the ways and means by which “he doth immediately bless [us].”10 Now, to bring these principles current and close, I share with you the experiences of two people whose lives stand as testaments of the immediate goodness of God.From the time she was a young teen, Emilie struggled with substance abuse.
Experimentation led to habit, and habit eventually hardened into an addiction that held her captive for years, notwithstanding occasional periods of wellness.
Emilie carefully concealed her problem, especially after she became a wife and mother.The beginning of her deliverance did not feel like deliverance at all.
One minute, Emilie was undergoing a routine medical exam, and the next, she was being driven by ambulance to an inpatient treatment facility.
She began to panic as she thought of being separated from her children, her husband, her home.That night, alone in a cold, dark room, Emilie curled up on her bed and sobbed.
Her ability to reason diminished until finally, overcome with anxiety, fear, and the oppressive darkness in that room and in her soul, Emilie actually thought she would die that night.
Alone.In that desperate condition, Emilie somehow summoned the strength to roll off the bed and onto her knees.
Without any posturing that had sometimes been part of previous prayers, Emilie completely surrendered herself to the Lord as she desperately pleaded, “Dear God, I need You.
Please help me.
I don’t want to be alone.
Please get me through this night.”And immediately, as He had done with Peter of old, Jesus stretched forth His hand and caught her sinking soul.11 There came over Emilie a wondrous calm, courage, assurance, and love.
The room was no longer cold, she knew she was not alone, and for the first time since she was 14 years old, Emilie knew everything would be all right.
As she “awoke unto God,”12 Emilie fell asleep in peace.
And thus we see that “if ye will repent and harden not your hearts, immediately shall the great plan of redemption be brought about unto you.”13Emilie’s healing and ultimate deliverance took a long time—months of treatment, training, and counseling, during which she was sustained and sometimes carried by His goodness.
And that goodness continued with her as she entered the temple with her husband and children to be sealed together forever.
Like the people of Zarahemla, Emilie now gives thanks as she reflects on the immediate goodness of God and His power in delivering her from bondage.Now, from the life of another brave believer.
On December 27, 2013, Alicia Schroeder joyfully welcomed her dear friends Sean and Sharla Chilcote, who unexpectedly showed up on her doorstep.
Sean, who was also Alicia’s bishop, handed her his cell phone and solemnly said, “Alicia, we love you.
You need to take this call.”Alicia’s husband, Mario, was on the phone.
He was in a remote area with some of their children on a long-anticipated snowmobile trip.
There had been a terrible accident.
Mario was seriously injured, and their 10-year-old son, Kaleb, was gone.
When Mario tearfully told Alicia of Kaleb’s death, she was overcome with a shock and horror few of us will ever know.
It dropped her.
Paralyzed with unspeakable anguish, Alicia could neither move nor speak.Bishop and Sister Chilcote quickly lifted her up and held her.
They wept and deeply grieved together for some time.
Then Bishop Chilcote offered to give Alicia a blessing.What happened next is incomprehensible without some understanding of the Atonement of Jesus Christ and the immediate goodness of God.
Bishop Chilcote gently placed his hands on Alicia’s head and, with quivering voice, began to speak.
Alicia heard two things as though spoken by God Himself.
First, she heard her name, Alicia Susan Schroeder.
Then she heard the bishop invoke the authority of Almighty God.
In that instant—at the mere utterance of her name and God’s power—Alicia was filled with an indescribable peace, love, comfort, and somehow joy.
And it has continued with her.Now, of course, Alicia, Mario, and their family still mourn for and miss Kaleb.
It is hard!
Whenever I speak with her, Alicia’s eyes well up with tears as she tells how much she loves and misses her little boy.
And her eyes remain moist as she tells how the Great Deliverer has sustained her through every bit of her ordeal, beginning with His immediate goodness during her deepest despair and continuing now with the bright hope of a sweet reunion that is “not many days hence.”I realize that sometimes life’s experiences create confusion and turbulence that can make it difficult to receive or recognize or retain the kind of relief that came to Emilie and Alicia.
I have been through such times.
I testify that, during such times, our mere preservation is a tender and powerful manifestation of the immediate goodness of God.
Remember, ancient Israel was ultimately delivered “by that same God who had preserved them”14 day to day.I bear witness that Jesus Christ is the Great Deliverer, and in His name, I promise that as you turn to Him with real intent and full purpose of heart, He will deliver you from everything that threatens to diminish or destroy your life or joy.
That deliverance may take longer than you would like—perhaps a lifetime or longer.
So, to give you comfort, courage, and hope, to sustain and strengthen you to that day of ultimate deliverance, I commend to you and testify of the immediate goodness of God in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
The beautiful Latter-day Saint hymn “Hark, All Ye Nations!” unmistakably captures the enthusiasm and exhilaration of the fulness of the gospel going to all the world.
In this hymn we sing:Hark, all ye nations!
Hear heaven’s voiceThru ev’ry land that all may rejoice!Angels of glory shout the refrain:Truth is restored again!1Louis F. Mönch, the author of this jubilant text, was a German convert who wrote the inspired words for the hymn while living in Switzerland during his full-time missionary service in Europe.2 The joy that springs from witnessing the global impact of the Restoration is clearly articulated in the following words of the hymn:Searching in darkness, nations have wept;Watching for dawn, their vigil they’ve kept.All now rejoice; the long night is o’er.Truth is on earth once more!3Thanks to the commencing of the ongoing Restoration just over 200 years ago, “the gospel light of truth and love”4 now shines brightly throughout the earth.
The Prophet Joseph learned in 1820, and millions more have since learned, that God “giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not.”5Shortly after the organization of the Church in this last dispensation, the Lord spoke to Joseph Smith and manifested His abounding love for us when He said:“Wherefore, I the Lord, knowing the calamity which should come upon the inhabitants of the earth, called upon my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., and spake unto him from heaven, and gave him commandments; …“That mine everlasting covenant might be established;“That the fulness of my gospel might be proclaimed by the weak and the simple unto the ends of the world.”6Soon after this revelation was received, missionaries began to be called and sent to many nations of the world.
Just as the prophet Nephi anticipated, the message of the restored gospel began to be preached “among all nations, kindreds, tongues, and people.”7“The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was formally organized in a small log cabin in upstate New York in 1830.“It took 117 years—until 1947—for the Church to grow from the initial six members to one million.
Missionaries were a feature of the Church from its earliest days, fanning out to Native American lands, to Canada and, in 1837, beyond the North American continent to England.
Not long after, missionaries were working on the European continent and as far away as India and the Pacific Islands.“The two-million-member mark was reached just 16 years later, in 1963, and the three-million mark in eight years more.”8Highlighting the rapid growth of the Church, President Russell M. Nelson recently said: “Today, the Lord’s work in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is moving forward at an accelerated pace.
The Church will have an unprecedented, unparalleled future.”9The Restoration of the fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the organization of the Lord’s living Church on the earth again, and its remarkable growth since then have made the blessings of the priesthood available throughout the earth.
Sacred ordinances and covenants that bind us to God and set us on the covenant path clearly manifest “the power of godliness.”10 As we participate in these sacred ordinances for the living and for the dead, we gather Israel on both sides of the veil and prepare the earth for the Second Coming of the Savior.In April 1973, my parents and I traveled from our native Argentina to be sealed in the temple.
Since there were no temples in all of Latin America at the time, we flew more than 6,000 miles (9,700 km) each way to be sealed in the Salt Lake Temple.
Although I was just two years of age at the time and do not recall the entirety of that special experience, three very distinct images from that trip were fixed in my mind and have remained ever since.First, I recall being placed close to the airplane’s window and seeing the white clouds below.Those beautiful, bright clouds endure in my mind as if they had been gigantic cotton balls.Another image that has remained in my mind is that of a few funny-looking characters at an amusement park in the Los Angeles area.
Those characters are hard to forget.But of much greater importance is this brilliant and unforgettable image:I clearly remember being in a sacred room of the Salt Lake Temple where sealings of couples and of families are performed for time and for all eternity.
I remember the beautiful altar of the temple and recall the bright sunlight shining through the room’s exterior window.
I felt then, and have continued to feel since, the warmth, safety, and solace of the gospel light of truth and love.Similar feelings were reaffirmed in my heart 20 years later, when I entered the temple to be sealed once again—this time as my fiancée and I were sealed for time and for all eternity.
However, on this occasion, we did not need to travel thousands of miles because the Buenos Aires Argentina Temple had since been built and dedicated, and it was just a short drive from our home.Twenty-two years after our wedding and sealing, we had the blessing of returning to the same temple, but this time with our beautiful daughter, and we were sealed as a family for time and for all eternity.As I’ve reflected upon these very sacred moments of my life, I have been overwhelmed with profound, enduring joy.
I have felt and continue to feel the love of a compassionate Father in Heaven, who knows our individual needs and our heartfelt desires.In addressing the gathering of Israel in the last days, the Lord Jehovah said, “I will put my law in their inward parts, and write it in their hearts; and will be their God, and they shall be my people.”11 I feel eternally grateful that from my young age, the law of the Lord started to be engraved deeply in my heart through sacred ordinances in His holy house.
How fundamental it is to know that He is our God, that we are His people, and that whatever circumstances surround us, if we are faithful and obey the covenants we have entered into, we can be “encircled about eternally in the arms of his love.”12During the women’s session of general conference in October 2019, President Nelson said, “All our efforts to minister to each other, proclaim the gospel, perfect the Saints, and redeem the dead converge in the holy temple.”13Also, during the same general conference, President Nelson taught: “Of course, the crowning jewel of the Restoration is the holy temple.
Its sacred ordinances and covenants are pivotal to preparing a people who are ready to welcome the Savior at His Second Coming.”14The ongoing Restoration has been marked by the building and dedication of temples at an augmented pace.
As we gather on both sides of the veil, as we make sacrifices to serve and make the temple pivotal in our lives, the Lord is truly building us—He is building His covenant people.Oh, how glorious from the throne aboveShines the gospel light of truth and love!Bright as the sun, this heavenly rayLights ev’ry land today.15I testify that the gospel light of truth and love shines brightly throughout the earth today.
The “marvellous work and a wonder” foretold by the prophet Isaiah16 and seen by Nephi17 is taking place at a hastened pace, even in these challenging times.
As Joseph Smith prophetically declared, “The Standard of Truth has been erected; no unhallowed hand can stop the work from progressing … till the purposes of God shall be accomplished, and the Great Jehovah shall say the work is done.”18Brothers and sisters, may we be willing and decide today to engage ourselves and our families in hearing heaven’s voice, even the voice of our Savior.
May we make and keep covenants with God, which will secure us firmly in the path that leads back to His presence, and may we rejoice in the blessings of the glorious light and truth of His gospel.
In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
I know what you are thinking!
Just one more speaker and we will hear from President Nelson.
Hoping to keep you alert for a few minutes as we await our beloved prophet, I have selected a very appealing topic: my subject is fruit.With the color, texture, and sweetness of berries, bananas, watermelons, and mangoes, or of more exotic fruit like kiwano or pomegranate, fruit has long been a treasured delicacy.During His earthly ministry, the Savior compared good fruit to things of eternal worth.
He said, “Ye shall know them by their fruits.”1 “Every good tree bringeth forth good fruit.”2 He encouraged us to gather “fruit unto life eternal.”3In a vivid dream that we all know well in the Book of Mormon, the prophet Lehi finds himself in “a dark and dreary wilderness.” There is filthy water, a mist of darkness, strange roads, and forbidden paths, as well as a rod of iron4 along a strait and narrow path leading to a beautiful tree with “fruit [that makes] one happy.” Recounting the dream, Lehi says: “I did … partake of the fruit; … it was most sweet, above all that I [had] ever … tasted.
… [And] it filled my soul with exceedingly great joy.” This fruit was “[more] desirable [than any] other fruit.”5The Meaning of the Tree and the FruitWhat does this tree with its most precious fruit symbolize?
It represents “the love of God”6 and proclaims our Heavenly Father’s marvelous plan of redemption.
“For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life.”7This precious fruit symbolizes the wondrous blessings of the Savior’s incomparable Atonement.
Not only will we live again following our mortality, but through our faith in Jesus Christ, our repentance, and our keeping the commandments, we can be forgiven of our sins and one day stand clean and pure before our Father and His Son.Partaking of the fruit of the tree also symbolizes that we embrace the ordinances and covenants of the restored gospel—being baptized, receiving the gift of the Holy Ghost, and entering the house of the Lord to be endowed with power from on high.
Through the grace of Jesus Christ and by honoring our covenants, we receive the immeasurable promise of living with our righteous family throughout eternity.8No wonder the angel described the fruit as “the most joyous to the soul.”9 It truly is!The Challenge of Staying TrueAs we have all learned, even after savoring the precious fruit of the restored gospel, staying true and faithful to the Lord Jesus Christ is still not easily done.
As has been said many times in this conference, we continue to face distractions and deceptions, confusion and commotion, enticements and temptations that attempt to pull our hearts away from the Savior and the joys and beauties we have experienced in following Him.Because of this adversity, Lehi’s dream also includes a warning!
On the other side of the river is a spacious building with people of all ages pointing their fingers, mocking, and scoffing at the righteous followers of Jesus Christ.The people in the building are ridiculing and laughing at those keeping the commandments, hoping to discredit and deride their faith in Jesus Christ and in His gospel.
And because of the verbal attacks of doubt and disdain launched at the believers, some of those who have tasted of the fruit begin to feel ashamed of the gospel they once embraced.
The false allures of the world seduce them; they turn away from the tree and from the fruit and, in the words of the scripture, “[fall] away into forbidden paths and [are] lost.”10In our world today, the adversary’s construction crews are working overtime, hastily inflating the large and spacious building.
The expansion has spread across the river, hoping to envelop our homes, while the pointers and the scoffers wail day and night on their internet megaphones.11President Nelson explained, “The adversary is quadrupling his efforts to disrupt testimonies and impede the work of the Lord.”12 Let us remember Lehi’s words: “We heeded them not.”13Although we need not fear, we are to be on guard.
At times, little things can upend our spiritual balance.
Please don’t allow your questions, the insults of others, faithless friends, or unfortunate mistakes and disappointments to turn you away from the sweet, pure, and soul-satisfying blessings that come from the precious fruit of the tree.
Keep your eyes and your hearts centered on the Savior Jesus Christ and the eternal joy that comes only through Him.The Faith of Jason HallIn June my wife, Kathy, and I attended the funeral of Jason Hall.
At the time of his passing, he was 48 years old and serving as an elders quorum president.Here are Jason’s words about an event that changed his life:“[At age 15] I [was] in a diving accident.
… I [broke] my neck and was paralyzed from the chest down.
I lost complete control of my legs and partial control of my arms.
I could no longer walk, stand, … or feed myself.
I could barely breathe or speak.”14“‘Dear Father [in Heaven],’ I begged, ‘if I could only have my hands, I know I could make it.
Please, Father, please.
…“… ‘Keep my legs, Father; I just [pray for] the use of my hands.’”15Jason never received the use of his hands.
Can you hear the voices from the spacious building?
“Jason Hall, God does not hear your prayers!
If God is a loving God, how could He leave you like this?
Why have faith in Christ?” Jason Hall heard their voices, but he did not heed them.
Instead he feasted upon the fruit of the tree.
His faith in Jesus Christ became immovable.
He graduated from the university and married Kolette Coleman in the temple, describing her as the love of his life.16 After 16 years of marriage, another miracle, their precious son, Coleman, was born.How did they grow their faith?
Kolette explained: “We trusted in God’s plan.
And it gave us hope.
We knew that Jason would [in a future day] be whole.
… We knew that God provided us a Savior, whose atoning sacrifice enables us to keep looking forward when we want to give up.”17Speaking at Jason’s funeral, 10-year-old Coleman said his dad taught him: “Heavenly Father [has] a plan for us, earth life would be awesome, and we could live in families.
… But … we would have to go through hard things and we would make mistakes.”Coleman continued: “Heavenly Father sent His Son, Jesus, to earth.
His job was to be perfect.
To heal people.
To love them.
And then to suffer for all of our pain, sorrows, and sins.
Then He died for us.” Then Coleman added, “Because He did this, Jesus knows how I feel right now.“Three days after Jesus died, He … came alive again, with His body perfect.
This is important to me because I know that … my [dad’s] body will be perfect and we will be together as a family.”Coleman concluded: “Every night since I was a baby, my dad said to me, ‘Dad loves you, Heavenly Father loves you, and you’re a good boy.’”18Joy Comes Because of Jesus ChristPresident Russell M. Nelson described why the Hall family feels joy and hope.
He said:“The joy we feel has little to do with the circumstances of our lives and everything to do with the focus of our lives.“When the focus of our lives is on God’s plan of salvation … and Jesus Christ and His gospel, we can feel joy regardless of what is happening—or not happening—in our lives.
Joy comes from and because of Him.
He is the source of all joy.
…“If we look to the world … , we will never know joy.
… [Joy] is the gift that comes from intentionally trying to live a righteous life, as taught by Jesus Christ.”19A Promise as You ReturnIf you have been without the fruit of the tree for some time, please know that the Savior’s arms are always outstretched to you.
He lovingly beckons, “Repent and come unto me.”20 His fruit is plentiful and always in season.
It cannot be purchased with money, and no one who honestly desires it is denied.21If you desire to return to the tree and taste the fruit once again, begin by praying to your Heavenly Father.
Believe in Jesus Christ and the power of His atoning sacrifice.
I promise you that as you look to the Savior “in every thought,”22 the fruit of the tree will be yours once again, delicious to your taste, joyous to your soul, “the greatest of all the gifts of God.”23Three weeks ago today, I saw the joy of the Savior’s fruit on full display as Kathy and I attended the Lisbon Portugal Temple dedication.
The truths of the restored gospel opened to Portugal in 1975 as religious freedom became available.
Many noble Saints who first tasted of the fruit when there were no congregations, no chapels, and no temple closer than 1,000 miles (1,600 km) rejoiced with us that the precious fruit of the tree is now in a house of the Lord in Lisbon, Portugal.
How I honor and revere these Latter-day Saints who have kept their hearts riveted on the Savior.The Savior said, “He that abideth in me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit: for without me ye can do nothing.”24Speaking this morning to the members of the Church across the world, President Nelson said, “My dear brothers and sisters, you are living exemplars of the fruits that come from following the teachings of Jesus Christ.” Then he added: “I thank you!
I love you!”25We love you, President Nelson.I am an eyewitness to the power of revelation that rests upon our dear President.
He is the prophet of God.
Like Lehi of old, President Russell M. Nelson beckons to us and all of God’s family to come and partake of the fruit of the tree.
May we have the humility and strength to follow his counsel.I humbly witness that Jesus Christ is the Son of God.
His love, His power, and His grace bring all things of lasting worth.
I so testify in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
In reviewing the teachings of our dear prophet, President Russell M. Nelson, I found a word that he has frequently used in many talks.
This word is power.In the first general conference after he was sustained as an Apostle, President Nelson talked about power.1 He has continued teaching about power over the years.
Since we have sustained President Nelson as our prophet, he has taught about the principle of power—specifically, God’s power—and how we can access it.
He has taught how we can draw upon God’s power as we minister to others,2 how repentance invites the power of Jesus Christ and His Atonement into our lives,3 and how priesthood—the power and authority of God—blesses all who make and keep covenants with Him.4 President Nelson has testified that God’s power flows to all who are endowed in the temple as they keep their covenants.5I was particularly moved by a challenge President Nelson gave in the April 2020 general conference.
He instructed us to “study and pray to learn more about the power and knowledge with which you have been endowed—or with which you will yet be endowed.”6In response to this challenge, I have studied and prayed and have learned some beneficial things about the power and knowledge with which I have been endowed—or with which I will yet be endowed.Understanding what we must do to access God’s power in our lives is not easy, but I have found it is doable by studying it out in our minds and praying for the Holy Ghost to enlighten us.7 Elder Richard G. Scott offered a clear definition of what the power of God is: it is the “power to do more than we can do by ourselves.”8Filling our heart and even our soul with the word of God and the foundation of faith in Jesus Christ is crucial to drawing upon the power of God to help us in these challenging times.
Without getting the word of God and faith in Jesus Christ deep into our hearts, our testimonies and faith may fail, and we may lose access to the power God wants to give us.
Superficial faith is insufficient.
Only faith and the word of God that fill our inner soul are sufficient to sustain us—and to allow us to access His power.As Sister Johnson and I were raising our children, we encouraged each of them to learn to play a musical instrument.
But we would allow our children to take music lessons only if they did their part and practiced their instrument each day.
One Saturday, our daughter Jalynn was excited to go play with friends, but she had not yet practiced the piano.
Knowing she had committed to practice for 30 minutes, she intended to set a timer because she did not want to practice even one minute longer than was required.As she walked by the microwave oven on her way to the piano, she paused and pushed some buttons.
But instead of setting the timer, she set the microwave to cook for 30 minutes and pushed start.
After about 20 minutes of practice, she walked back to the kitchen to check how much time was remaining and found the microwave oven on fire.She then ran into the backyard where I was doing yard work, yelling that the house was on fire.
I quickly ran into the house, and indeed, I found the microwave oven in flames.In an effort to save our home from burning, I reached behind the microwave, unplugged it, and used the power cord to lift the burning microwave off of the counter.
Hoping to be the hero and to save the day as well as our home, I swung the flaming microwave in circles with the power cord to keep it away from my body, got to the backyard, and with another swinging motion flung the microwave out onto the lawn.
There we were able to extinguish the fiery flames with a hose.What had gone wrong?
A microwave oven needs something to absorb its energy, and when nothing is on the inside to absorb the energy, the oven itself absorbs the energy, becomes hot, and may catch on fire, destroying itself in a pile of flames and ashes.9 Our entire microwave went up in flames and burned because there was nothing on the inside.Likewise, those who have faith and the word of God deep in their hearts will be able to absorb and overcome the fiery darts that the adversary will surely send to destroy us.10 Otherwise, our faith, hope, and conviction may not endure, and like the empty microwave oven, we could become a casualty.I have learned that having the word of God deep in my soul, coupled with faith in the Lord Jesus Christ and His Atonement, allows me to draw upon the power of God to overcome the adversary and anything he may throw at me.
As we face challenges, we can rely upon the promise of the Lord taught by Paul: “For God hath not given us the spirit of fear; but of power, and of love, and of a sound mind.”11We know that as a child the Savior “grew, and waxed strong in spirit, filled with wisdom: and the grace of God was upon him.”12 We know that as He grew older, “Jesus increased in wisdom and stature, and in favour with God and man.”13 And we know that by the time His ministry commenced, those who heard Him “were astonished at his doctrine: for his word was with power.”14Through preparation, the Savior grew in power and was able to resist all of Satan’s temptations.15 As we follow the Savior’s example and prepare through studying the word of God and deepening our faith, we also can draw upon the power of God to resist temptations.During this time of restricted gathering that makes regular temple attendance impossible, I have actually made a point to continue to study and learn more about the power of God that comes to us as we make and keep temple covenants.
As promised in the dedicatory prayer of the Kirtland Temple, we leave the temple armed with God’s power.16 There is no expiration date associated with the power God bestows upon those who make and keep temple covenants, nor is there a restriction from accessing that power during a pandemic.
His power diminishes in our lives only if we fail to keep our covenants and do not live in a way that allows us to continually qualify to receive His power.While my dear wife and I were serving as mission leaders in Thailand, Laos, and Myanmar, we witnessed firsthand the power of God that comes to those who make and keep sacred covenants in the temple.
The Temple Patron Assistance Fund made it possible for many Saints in these three countries to attend the temple after doing all they could through personal sacrifice and preparation.
I recall meeting a group of 20 faithful Saints from Laos at an airport in Bangkok, Thailand, to help them transfer to another airport in Bangkok to catch their flight to Hong Kong.
These members were brimming with excitement to finally be traveling to the house of the Lord.When we met these good Saints upon their return, the added gospel maturity and associated power resulting from receiving their temple endowment and entering into covenants with God were evident.
These Saints clearly went forth from the temple “armed with [His] power.”17 This power to do more than they could do themselves gave them strength to endure the challenges of Church membership in their home country and to go forth bearing “exceedingly great and glorious tidings, in truth,”18 as they continue building the Lord’s kingdom in Laos.During the time we have not been able to attend the temple, have we each relied upon the covenants we made in the temple to set a clear, unchanging course of direction in our lives?
These covenants, if kept, give us vision and expectations regarding the future and a clear determination to qualify to receive all that the Lord has promised through our faithfulness.I invite you to seek the power God wants to give you.
I testify that as we seek for this power, we will be blessed with a greater understanding of the love our Heavenly Father has for us.I testify that because Heavenly Father loves you and me, He sent His Beloved Son, Jesus Christ, to be our Savior and Redeemer.
I testify of Jesus Christ, He who has all power,19 and do so in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
My beloved brothers and sisters, as we come to the end of this historic conference, we thank the Lord for His inspiration and protection.
The messages have instructed and edified us.Topics were not assigned to the speakers.
They each prayed for personal revelation in preparing their messages.
To me, it is remarkable how those themes seem to fit so well with each other.
As you study them, seek to learn what the Lord is trying to teach you through His servants.The music has been glorious.
We are deeply grateful to the many musicians who have blended their talents to bring the Spirit of the Lord into each session.
And He has blessed the prayers and the congregations in every session.
Truly, conference has again been a spiritual feast for us all.We hope and pray that each member’s home will become a true sanctuary of faith, where the Spirit of the Lord may dwell.
Despite contention all around us, one’s home can become a heavenly place, where study, prayer, and faith can be merged with love.
We can truly become disciples of the Lord, standing up and speaking up for Him wherever we are.God’s objective should be our objective.
He wants His children to choose to return to Him, prepared, qualified, endowed, sealed, and faithful to covenants made in holy temples.We now have 162 dedicated temples.
The earliest ones stand as monuments to the faith and vision of our beloved pioneers.
Each temple constructed by them resulted from their great personal sacrifice and effort.
Each one stands as a stunning jewel in the crown of pioneer achievement.Ours is a sacred responsibility to care for them.
Therefore, these pioneer temples will soon undergo a period of renewal and refreshing and, for some, a major restoration.
Efforts will be made to preserve the unique historicity of each temple wherever possible, preserving the inspiring beauty and unique craftsmanship of generations long-since passed.Details for the St. George Utah Temple have already been released.
Plans for the renovation of the Salt Lake Temple, Temple Square, and the adjoining plaza near the Church Office Building will be announced on Friday, April 19, 2019.The Manti and Logan Utah Temples will also be renovated in coming years.
When those plans are prepared, they too will be announced.This work will require that each temple be closed for a period of time.
Church members may continue to enjoy temple worship and service in other temples nearby.
When each project is completed, each historic temple will be rededicated.Brothers and sisters, we regard a temple as the most sacred structure in the Church.
As we announce plans to construct a new temple, it becomes part of our sacred history.
Now, please listen carefully and reverently.
If I announce a temple in a place that is special to you, may I suggest that you simply bow your head with a silent prayer of gratitude in your heart.
We do not want any verbal outbursts to detract from the sacred nature of this conference and the Lord’s holy temples.Today we are pleased to announce plans to construct more temples, to be built in the following locations:Pago Pago, American Samoa; Okinawa City, Okinawa; Neiafu, Tonga; Tooele Valley, Utah; Moses Lake, Washington; San Pedro Sula, Honduras; Antofagasta, Chile; Budapest, Hungary.Thank you, my dear brothers and sisters.As we speak of our temples old and new, may each of us signify by our actions that we are true disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ.
May we renovate our lives through our faith and trust in Him.
May we access the power of His Atonement by our repentance each day.
And may we dedicate and rededicate our lives to serving God and His children—on both sides of the veil.I leave my love and blessing with you, assuring you that revelation continues in this, the Lord’s Church.
It will continue until “the purposes of God shall be accomplished, and the Great Jehovah shall say the work is done.”1I so bless you and bear my testimony that God lives!
Jesus is the Christ!
This is His Church.
We are His people.
In the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.
My dear brothers and sisters, for two days we have been well taught by servants of the Lord who have sought diligently to know what He would have them say.We have been given our charge for the next six months.
Now the question is, how will we be different because of what we have heard and felt?The pandemic has demonstrated how quickly life can change, at times from circumstances beyond our control.
However, there are many things we can control.
We set our own priorities and determine how we use our energy, time, and means.
We decide how we will treat each other.
We choose those to whom we will turn for truth and guidance.The voices and pressures of the world are engaging and numerous.
But too many voices are deceptive, seductive, and can pull us off the covenant path.
To avoid the inevitable heartbreak that follows, I plead with you today to counter the lure of the world by making time for the Lord in your life—each and every day.If most of the information you get comes from social or other media, your ability to hear the whisperings of the Spirit will be diminished.
If you are not also seeking the Lord through daily prayer and gospel study, you leave yourself vulnerable to philosophies that may be intriguing but are not true.
Even Saints who are otherwise faithful can be derailed by the steady beat of Babylon’s band.My brothers and sisters, I plead with you to make time for the Lord!
Make your own spiritual foundation firm and able to stand the test of time by doing those things that allow the Holy Ghost to be with you always.Never underestimate the profound truth that “the Spirit speaketh … of things as they really are, and of things as they really will be.”1 “It will show unto you all things what ye should do.”2Nothing invites the Spirit more than fixing your focus on Jesus Christ.
Talk of Christ, rejoice in Christ, feast upon the words of Christ, and press forward with steadfastness in Christ.3 Make your Sabbath a delight as you worship Him, partake of the sacrament, and keep His day holy.4As I emphasized this morning, please make time for the Lord in His holy house.
Nothing will strengthen your spiritual foundation like temple service and temple worship.We thank all who are working on our new temples.
They are being built all over the world.
Today I am pleased to announce our plans to build more temples at or near the following locations: Kaohsiung, Taiwan; Tacloban, Philippines; Monrovia, Liberia; Kananga, Democratic Republic of the Congo; Antananarivo, Madagascar; Culiacán, Mexico; Vitória, Brazil; La Paz, Bolivia; Santiago West, Chile; Fort Worth, Texas; Cody, Wyoming; Rexburg North, Idaho; Heber Valley, Utah; and reconstruction of the Provo Utah Temple after the Orem Utah Temple is dedicated.I love you, dear brothers and sisters.
The Lord knows you and loves you.
He is your Savior and your Redeemer.
He leads and guides His Church.
He will lead and guide you in your personal life if you will make time for Him in your life—each and every day.May God be with you until we meet again, I pray in the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.
When Moroni first came to Joseph Smith, he warned that Joseph’s “name should be had for good and evil among all nations.”1 We have seen the fulfillment of that prophecy.
In the war between good and evil, the Restoration of the gospel through the Prophet Joseph Smith has both inspired believers who follow him and also provoked antagonists who fight furiously against the cause of Zion and against Joseph himself.
This battle is not new.
It began soon after young Joseph walked into the Sacred Grove and continues today with added visibility on the internet.The Lord personally declared to Joseph Smith:“The ends of the earth shall inquire after thy name, and fools shall have thee in derision, and hell shall rage against thee;“While the pure in heart, and the wise, and the noble, and the virtuous, shall seek counsel, and authority, and blessings constantly from under thy hand.”2Today I offer my testimony to all who seek to better understand the sacred mission of Joseph Smith Jr., the Prophet of the Restoration.We need not be timid about testifying of Joseph’s mission as prophet, seer, and revelator, for the Lord has always worked through prophets.3 Because of the truths restored through Joseph Smith, we know much more about our Heavenly Father and the Savior Jesus Christ.
We know of Their divine attributes, Their relationship to each other and to us, and the great plan of redemption that allows us to return to Their presence.Of Joseph, President Brigham Young declared: “It was decreed in the councils of eternity, long before the foundations of the earth were laid, that he should be the man, in the last dispensation of this world, to bring forth the word of God to the people and receive the fullness of the keys and power of the Priesthood of the Son of God.
The Lord had his eye upon him … [for he] was foreordained in eternity to preside over this last dispensation.”4In preparation for this great work, Joseph Smith was born into a loving family who experienced many of the everyday burdens and trials of life.
As Joseph began to mature, his feelings toward God “were deep and often poignant,”5 yet he was confused by conflicting religious ideas taught by the preachers of his day.
Fortunately, young Joseph did not let his questions paralyze his faith.
He sought answers in the Bible and found this counsel: “If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him.”6Joseph recalled: “Never did any passage of scripture come with more power to the heart of man than this did at this time to mine.
It seemed to enter with great force into every feeling of my heart.
I reflected on it again and again.”7With simple faith, Joseph acted on these spiritual feelings.
He found a secluded place, knelt down, “and began to offer up the desires of [his] heart to God.”8 There is great power in Joseph’s description of what happened:“I saw a pillar of light exactly over my head, above the brightness of the sun, which descended gradually until it fell upon me.“… When the light rested upon me I saw two Personages, whose brightness and glory defy all description, standing above me in the air.
One of them spake unto me, calling me by name and said, pointing to the other—This is My Beloved Son.
Hear Him!”9Joseph Smith saw God, the Eternal Father, and Jesus Christ, the Savior and Redeemer of the world.
This was Joseph’s First Vision.
In the years that followed, Joseph translated the Book of Mormon by the gift and power of God.
Numerous other heavenly beings visited him, restoring truths and authority that had been lost for centuries.
These divine communications to Joseph Smith opened the windows of heaven and the glories of eternity to our view.
Joseph’s life stands as a testimony that if any of us lack wisdom, we can ask God in faith and receive answers—sometimes from heavenly beings but more often by the power of the Holy Ghost, who speaks to us through inspired thoughts and feelings.10 It is through the Holy Ghost that we can “know the truth of all things.”11For many of us, a witness of the Prophet Joseph Smith begins as we read the Book of Mormon.
I first read the Book of Mormon from cover to cover as a young early-morning seminary student.
With my vivid boyish imagination, I decided to read as if I were Joseph Smith, discovering the truths in the Book of Mormon for the very first time.
It had such an impact on my life that I continue to read the Book of Mormon in that way.
I often find that doing so deepens my appreciation for the Prophet Joseph and for the truths restored in this precious book.For example, imagine Joseph’s feelings as he translated passages about baptism for the remission of sins.
Joseph, who had been told not to join any of the existing churches, naturally had questions about this saving ordinance.
His questions led him, once again, to pray, and that prayer led to a visit from John the Baptist, who restored the Aaronic Priesthood and the authority to baptize.12Or consider how Joseph might have felt when he learned for the first time that Jesus Christ visited the people of the Western Hemisphere—that He taught them, prayed for them, healed their sick, blessed their children, conferred priesthood authority, and administered the sacrament unto them.13 Joseph may not have realized it at the time, but what he learned about the ordinances and organization of Christ’s ancient Church prepared him to later assist the Lord in restoring that same Church to the earth.During the translation of the Book of Mormon, Joseph and his wife Emma mourned the death of their infant son.
In those days preachers commonly taught that children who died without baptism would be condemned forever.
With this in mind, imagine how Joseph must have felt as he translated these words from the prophet Mormon: “Little children need no repentance, neither baptism.
… [For] little children are alive in Christ, even from the foundation of the world.”14Perhaps the most stunning passage in the Book of Mormon to young Joseph may have been the third chapter of 2 Nephi.
This chapter contains an ancient prophecy about a “choice seer” whom the Lord would raise up in the latter days—a seer named Joseph, named after his father.
This future prophet would be “esteemed highly” and would do a work “of great worth” unto his people.
He would “be great like unto Moses” and would be given “power to bring forth [God’s] word.”15 Consider how Joseph Smith must have felt as he realized that this prophecy was about him!
He was not just translating history; he was translating a vision of the last days, of the miraculous Restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ—and Joseph himself would help fulfill it!Today, almost 200 years later, it’s easy to see how this prophecy has been realized.
We know about the great things Joseph accomplished as the Lord’s prophet.
But remember that when Joseph translated this prophecy, he had done few of the things the prophets foretold.
He was still a young man in his early 20s.
The Church had not yet been organized.
There were no wards or branches, no missionaries, and no temples.
Hardly anyone had heard of Joseph Smith, and some of those who had, actively opposed him.
Now look at the great work the Lord has wrought by the hand of His servant Joseph, notwithstanding the opposition against him.
Is not the fulfillment of this prophecy compelling evidence of the prophetic calling of Joseph Smith?To any who may be questioning their testimony of Joseph Smith or are struggling with erroneous, misleading, or superficial information about his life and ministry, I invite you to consider the fruits—the many blessings that have come to us through the miraculous mission of Joseph Smith, the Prophet of the Restoration.Because Joseph was a prophet, revelations and prophets are no longer a thing of the past.
The “day of miracles”—of visions, healings, and ministering of angels—has not ceased.16Because Joseph was a prophet, each of us has access to the power and blessings of the holy priesthood, including baptism, the gift of the Holy Ghost, and the sacrament.Because Joseph was a prophet, we have the blessings and ordinances of the temple that bind us to God, make us His people, and manifest to us “the power of godliness,” making it possible one day to “see the face of God, even the Father, and live.”17Because Joseph was a prophet, we know that marriage and family are an essential part of God’s plan for our happiness.
We know that through temple ordinances and covenants, our cherished family relationships can endure eternally.Because Joseph was a prophet, we have more than a window into heaven—the very doorway to the eternities is open to us.
We can know “the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom [He has] sent.”18 Eternal life can be ours.Most of all, because Joseph was a prophet, we have witness upon witness, testimony upon testimony, that Jesus Christ is the Son of God and Savior of the world.
We have an unbroken chain of special witnesses of Jesus Christ, including our prophet today, President Thomas S. Monson; the counselors in the First Presidency; and the members of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles.
To their witnesses, I add my humble yet certain testimony: Jesus Christ lives and leads His Church.
Joseph Smith was and is the Prophet of the Restoration.
The priesthood and authority of God are again on the earth.
May we fearlessly declare our witness and our gratitude for this wonderful prophet, seer, and revelator of the Lord is my prayer in the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.
My beloved brethren, I pray for the Spirit to guide my remarks this evening.
A common thread binds us together.
We have been entrusted to bear the priesthood of God and to act in His name.
We are the recipients of a sacred trust.
Much is expected of us.We read in the Doctrine and Covenants, section 121, verse 36, “The rights of the priesthood are inseparably connected with the powers of heaven.” What a wonderful gift we have been given.
Ours is the responsibility to guard and protect that priesthood and to be worthy of all the glorious blessings our Father in Heaven has in store for us—and for others through us.Wherever you go, your priesthood goes with you.
Are you standing in holy places?
Before you put yourself and your priesthood in jeopardy by venturing into places or participating in activities which are not worthy of you or of that priesthood, pause to consider the consequences.
Remember who you are and what God expects you to become.
You are a child of promise.
You are a man of might.
You are a son of God.This precious gift of priesthood power brings with it not only solemn responsibilities but also special blessings for ourselves and for others.
May we, in whatever place we may find ourselves, always be worthy to call upon its power, for we never know when our need and our opportunity to do so may come.During World War II, a friend of mine was serving in the South Pacific when his plane was shot down over the ocean.
He and the other crew members successfully parachuted from the burning plane, inflated their life rafts, and clung to those rafts for three days.On the third day they spotted what they knew to be a rescue vessel.
It passed them by.
The next morning it passed them by again.
They began to despair as they realized that this was the last day the rescue vessel would be in the area.Then the Holy Spirit spoke to my friend: “You have the priesthood.
Command the rescuers to pick you up.”He did as prompted: “In the name of Jesus Christ and by the power of the priesthood, turn about and pick us up.”Within a few minutes the vessel was beside them, helping them on deck.
A faithful and worthy bearer of the priesthood, in his extremity, had exercised that priesthood, blessing his life and the lives of others.May we determine, here and now, ever to be prepared for our time of need, our time of service, our time of blessing.As we now conclude this general priesthood session, I say to you that you “are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood” (1 Peter 2:9).
May we ever be worthy of these divine accolades, I pray with all my heart in the name of Jesus Christ, our Savior, amen.
A year and a half ago, President Russell M. Nelson spoke of the need “to teach and help raise a sin-resistant generation.”1 That phrase—“a sin-resistant generation”—struck a deep spiritual chord within me.We honor children who strive to live pure and obedient lives.
I have witnessed the strength of many children throughout the world.
They stand resilient, “steadfast and immovable”2 in a variety of challenging circumstances and environments.
These children understand their divine identity, feel Heavenly Father’s love for them, and seek to obey His will.However, there are children who struggle to stand “steadfast and immovable” and whose delicate minds are being wounded.3 They are being attacked on every side by “the fiery darts of the adversary”4 and are in need of reinforcement and support.
They are an overwhelming motivation for us to step up and wage a war against sin in our effort to bring our children unto Christ.Listen to the words of Elder Bruce R. McConkie nearly 43 years ago:“As members of the Church, we are engaged in a mighty conflict.
We are at war.
We have enlisted in the cause of Christ to fight against Lucifer.
…“The great war that rages on every side and which unfortunately is resulting in many casualties, some fatal, is no new thing.
…“Now there neither are nor can be any neutrals in this war.”5Today the war continues with increased intensity.
The battle touches us all, and our children are on the front lines facing the opposing forces.
Thus, the need intensifies for us to strengthen our spiritual strategies.Fortifying children to become sin-resistant is a task and a blessing for parents, grandparents, family members, teachers, and leaders.
We each bear responsibility to help.
However, the Lord has specifically instructed parents to teach their children “to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost” and “to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord.”6How to “bring up [our] children in light and truth”7 may be a challenging question since it is individualized for each family and each child, but Heavenly Father has given universal guidelines that will help us.
The Spirit will inspire us in the most effective ways we can spiritually inoculate our children.To begin, having a vision of the importance of this responsibility is essential.
We must understand our—and their—divine identity and purpose before we can help our children see who they are and why they are here.
We must help them know without question that they are sons and daughters of a loving Heavenly Father and that He has divine expectations of them.Second, understanding the doctrine of repentance is essential for becoming resistant to sin.
Being sin-resistant doesn’t mean being sinless, but it does imply being continually repentant, vigilant, and valiant.
Perhaps being sin-resistant comes as a blessing from repeatedly resisting sin.
As James said, “Resist the devil, and he will flee from you.”8The stripling warriors “were exceedingly valiant for courage … ; but behold, this was not all—they were … true at all times in whatsoever thing they were entrusted.
Yea, … they had been taught to keep the commandments of God and to walk uprightly before him.”9 These young men went to war carrying Christlike virtues as weapons against their adversaries.
President Thomas S. Monson reminded us that “the call for courage comes constantly to each of us.
Every day of our lives courage is needed—not just for the momentous events but more often as we make decisions or respond to circumstances around us.”10Our children don spiritual armor as they establish patterns of personal daily discipleship.
Perhaps we underestimate the abilities of children to grasp the concept of daily discipleship.
President Henry B. Eyring counseled us to “start early and be steady.”11 So a third key to helping children become sin-resistant is to begin at very early ages to lovingly infuse them with basic gospel doctrines and principles—from the scriptures, the Articles of Faith, the For the Strength of Youth booklet, Primary songs, hymns, and our own personal testimonies—that will lead children to the Savior.Creating consistent habits of prayer, scripture study, family home evening, and Sabbath worship leads to wholeness, internal consistency, and strong moral values—in other words, spiritual integrity.
In today’s world where integrity has all but disappeared, our children deserve to understand what true integrity is and why it is so important—especially as we prepare them to make and keep sacred covenants at baptism and in the temple.
As Preach My Gospel teaches, “Keeping commitments prepares people [including very young people] to make and keep sacred covenants.”12Elder Jeffrey R. Holland has taught, “When we talk about covenant keeping, we are talking about the heart and soul of our purpose in mortality.”13 There is unusual power in making and keeping covenants with our Heavenly Father.
The adversary knows this, so he has obscured the concept of covenant making.14 Helping children understand, make, and keep sacred covenants is another key in creating a sin-resistant generation.How do we prepare our children to make and keep sacred covenants as they enter and progress along the covenant path?
Teaching children to keep simple promises when they are young will empower them to keep holy covenants later in life.Let me share a simple example: In family home evening, a father asked, “How are we getting along as a family?” Five-year-old Lizzie complained that her big brother, Kevin, was teasing her too much and hurting her feelings.
Kevin reluctantly admitted that Lizzie was right.
Kevin’s mother asked him what he could do to get along better with his sister.
Kevin thought and decided he would promise Lizzie that he would go one whole day without teasing her.At the end of the next day as everyone gathered for family prayer, Kevin’s dad asked Kevin how he had done.
Kevin’s response was “Dad, I kept my promise!” Lizzie happily agreed, and the family congratulated Kevin.Kevin’s mother then suggested that if he could keep his promise for one day, why couldn’t he do it for two days?
Kevin agreed to try it again.
Two days passed, Kevin was successful in keeping his promise, and Lizzie was even more thankful!
When his father asked why he was keeping his promises so well, Kevin said, “I kept my promise because I said I would.”A succession of small, successfully kept promises leads to integrity.
The consistent practice of promise keeping is spiritual preparation for children to receive their first covenant of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost, wherein they covenant to serve God and keep His commandments.15 Promises and covenants are inseparable.In the book of Daniel, we learn of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego refusing to worship King Nebuchadnezzar’s idol.16 The king warned them that they would be cast into a burning fiery furnace if they didn’t comply.
They refused and said:“If it be so, our God whom we serve is able to deliver us from the burning fiery furnace.
…“But if not, be it known unto thee, O king, that we will not serve thy gods.”17“But if not.” Consider the meaning of these three words and how they relate to keeping covenants.
These three young men were not basing their obedience upon being delivered.
Even if they were not delivered, they would keep their promise to the Lord because they said they would.
Keeping our covenants is always independent of our situation.
These three young men, just as the stripling warriors, are wonderful examples of sin-resistance for our children.How do these examples apply in our homes and to our families?
“Line upon line, precept upon precept,”18 we help children taste success in small bites.
As they keep their promises, they feel the Spirit in their lives.
Elder Joseph B. Wirthlin taught that “the consummate reward of integrity is the constant companionship of the Holy Ghost.”19 Then shall our children’s “confidence wax strong in the presence of God.”20 Out of the well of integrity springs an empowered, sin-resistant generation.Brothers and sisters, hold your little ones close—so close that they see your daily religious behavior and watch you keeping your promises and covenants.
“Children are great imitators, so give them something great to imitate.”21 We are indeed helping to teach and raise a sin-resistant generation unto the Lord promise by promise and covenant by covenant.I testify that Jesus Christ leads this Church.
As you teach, lead, and love children in the Savior’s way, you can receive personal revelation that will aid you in creating and arming valiant, sin-resistant children.
My prayer is that our children will echo the words of Nephi: “Wilt thou make me that I may shake at the appearance of sin?”22 I testify that our Savior atoned for the sins of the world23—because He said He would—and that He loves us more than we mere mortals can even comprehend24—because He said He would.
In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
Dear brothers and sisters, when I served in Asia, people sometimes asked, “Elder Gong, how many people live in the Asia Area of the Church?”I said, “Half the world’s population—3.6 billion people.”Someone asked, “Is it hard to remember all their names?”Remembering—and forgetting—are part of everyday life.
For example, once, after looking everywhere for her new mobile phone, my wife finally decided to call it from another phone.
When she heard her phone ring, my wife thought, “Who could be calling me?
I haven’t given that number to anyone!”Remembering—and forgetting—are also part of our eternal journey.
Time, agency, and memory help us learn, grow, and increase in faith.In the words of a favorite hymn:We’ll sing all hail to Jesus’ name,And praise and honor give.
…Ye Saints, partake and testifyYe do remember him.1Each week, in partaking of the sacrament, we covenant to always remember Him.
Drawing on the nearly 400 scripture references to the word remember, here are six ways we can always remember Him.First, we can always remember Him by having confidence in His covenants, promises, and assurances.The Lord remembers His everlasting covenants—from Adam’s time to the day Adam’s posterity “shall embrace the truth, and look upward, then shall Zion look downward, and all the heavens shall shake with gladness, and the earth shall tremble with joy.”2The Lord remembers His promises, including promises to gather scattered Israel through the Book of Mormon: Another Testament of Jesus Christ and promises given to every member and missionary who remembers the worth of souls.3The Lord remembers and assures nations and peoples.
In these days of motion and commotion,4 “some trust in chariots, and some in horses: but we will remember the name of the Lord our God,”5 who guides “the future as he has the past.”6 In “perilous times,”7 we “remember that it is not the work of God that is frustrated, but the work of men.”8Second, we can always remember Him by gratefully acknowledging His hand throughout our lives.The Lord’s hand in our lives is often clearest in hindsight.
As Christian philosopher Søren Kierkegaard put it: “Life must be understood backward.
But … it must be lived forward.”9My dear mother recently celebrated her 90th birthday.
She gratefully testified of God’s blessing at each major juncture in her life.
Family histories, family traditions, and family ties help us savor remembrance of things past while providing future patterns and hope.
Priesthood lines of authority and patriarchal blessings witness of God’s hand across generations.Have you ever thought of yourself as your own living book of remembrance—reflecting what and how you choose to remember?For example, when I was younger, I really wanted to play school basketball.
I practiced and practiced.
One day the coach pointed to our 6-foot-4-inch (1.93 m) all-state center and our 6-foot-2-inch (1.88 m) all-star forward and said to me, “I can put you on the team, but you’ll likely never play.” I remember how kindly he then encouraged, “Why not try out for soccer?
You’d be good.” My family cheered when I scored my first goal.We can remember those who give us a chance, and a second chance, with honesty, kindness, patience, and encouragement.
And we can become someone others remember when they most needed help.
Gratefully remembering the assistance of others and the Spirit’s guiding influence is a way we remember Him.
It is a way we count our many blessings and see what God hath done.10Third, we can always remember Him by trusting when the Lord assures us, “He who has repented of his sins, the same is forgiven, and I, the Lord, remember them no more.”11When we fully repent, including by confessing and forsaking our sins, we ask with Enos, as our guilt is swept away, “Lord, how is it done?” and hear the answer “Because of thy faith in Christ”12 and His invitation to “put me in remembrance.”13Once we repent and priesthood leaders declare us worthy, we need not continue to confess and confess these past sins.
To be worthy does not mean to be perfect.
Heavenly Father’s plan of happiness invites us to be humbly at peace on our life’s journey to someday become perfected in Christ,14 not constantly worried, frustrated, or unhappy in our imperfections today.
Remember, He knows all the things we don’t want anyone else to know about us—and loves us still.Sometimes life tests our trust in Christ’s mercy, justice, and judgment and in His liberating invitation to allow His Atonement to heal us as we forgive others and ourselves.A young woman in another country applied to work as a journalist, but the official who assigned jobs was merciless.
He said to her, “With my signature, I guarantee you will not become a journalist but will dig sewers.” She was the only woman digging sewers in a gang of men.Years later this woman became an official.
One day a man came in needing her signature for a job.She asked, “Do you remember me?” He did not.She said, “You do not remember me, but I remember you.
With your signature, you guaranteed I never became a journalist.
With your signature, you sent me to dig sewers, the only woman in a gang of men.”She told me, “I feel I should treat that man better than he treated me—but I do not have that strength.” Sometimes that strength is not within us, but it can be found in remembering the Atonement of our Savior, Jesus Christ.When trust is betrayed, dreams shattered, hearts broken and broken again, when we want justice and need mercy, when our fists clench and our tears flow, when we need to know what to hold onto and what to let go of, we can always remember Him.
Life is not as cruel as it can sometimes seem.
His infinite compassion can help us find our way, truth, and life.15When we remember His words and example, we will not give or take offense.My friend’s father worked as a mechanic.
His honest labor showed even in his carefully washed hands.
One day someone at a temple told my friend’s father he should clean his hands before serving there.
Instead of being offended, this good man began to scrub the family dishes by hand with extra soapy water before attending the temple.
He exemplifies those who “ascend into the hill of the Lord” and “stand in his holy place” with the cleanest of hands and the purest of hearts.16If we have unkind feelings, grudges, or resentments or if we have cause to ask forgiveness of others, now is the time to do so.Fourth, He invites us to remember that He is always welcoming us home.We learn by asking and searching.
But please do not cease exploration until you arrive—in the words of T. S. Eliot—“where [you] started and know the place for the first time.”17 When you are ready, please open your heart to the Book of Mormon, again, for the first time.
Please pray with real intent, again, for the first time.Trust that early or faint memory.
Let it enlarge your faith.
With God, there is no point of no return.Prophets ancient and modern implore us not to let human foibles, faults, or weaknesses—others’ or our own—cause us to miss the truths, covenants, and redeeming power in His restored gospel.18 This is especially important in a church where we each grow through our imperfect participation.
The Prophet Joseph said, “I never told you I was perfect; but there is no error in the revelations which I have taught.”19Fifth, we can always remember Him on the Sabbath through the sacrament.
At the end of His mortal ministry and the beginning of His resurrected ministry—both times—our Savior took bread and wine and asked that we remember His body and blood,20 “for as oft as ye do this ye will remember this hour that I was with you.”21In the ordinance of the sacrament, we witness unto God the Father that we are willing to take upon us the name of His Son and always remember Him and keep His commandments, which He has given us, that we may always have His Spirit to be with us.22As Amulek teaches, we remember Him when we pray over our fields, our flocks, and our households and when we remember the needy, the naked, the sick and afflicted.23Finally, sixth, our Savior invites us to always remember Him as He always remembers us.In the New World, our resurrected Savior invited those present to come, one by one, to thrust their hands into His side and to feel the prints of the nails in His hands and in His feet.24The scriptures describe resurrection as “every limb and joint shall be restored to … their proper and perfect frame,” and “even a hair of the head shall not be lost.”25 That being so, please consider how it is that our Savior’s perfect, resurrected body still bears the wounds in His side and the nail prints in His hands and feet.26At times in history, mortal men have been executed by crucifixion.
But only our Savior, Jesus Christ, embraces us still carrying the marks of His pure love.
Only He fulfills the prophecy of being lifted up upon the cross that He might draw each of us, by name, to Him.27Our Savior declares:“Yea, they may forget, yet will I not forget thee.“Behold, I have graven thee upon the palms of my hands.”28He testifies: “I am he who was lifted up.
I am Jesus that was crucified.
I am the Son of God.”29I humbly testify and pray that we will always remember Him—in all times, all things, and all places we may be in.30 In the sacred and holy name of Jesus Christ, amen.
A profound phrase used by King Benjamin in his teachings about the Savior and His Atonement has been a recurring topic of my study and pondering for many years.In his spiritually stirring farewell sermon to the people he had served and loved, King Benjamin described the importance of knowing the glory of God and tasting of His love, of receiving a remission of sins, of always remembering the greatness of God, and of praying daily and standing steadfastly in the faith.1 He also promised that by doing these things, “ye shall always rejoice, and be filled with the love of God, and always retain a remission of your sins.”2My message focuses upon the principle of always retaining a remission of our sins.
The truth expressed in this phrase can strengthen our faith in the Lord Jesus Christ and deepen our discipleship.
I pray the Holy Ghost will inspire and edify us as we consider together essential spiritual truths.Spiritual RebirthIn mortality we experience physical birth and the opportunity for spiritual rebirth.3 We are admonished by prophets and apostles to awake unto God,4 be “born again,”5 and become new creatures in Christ6 by receiving in our lives the blessings made possible through the Atonement of Jesus Christ.
The “merits, and mercy, and grace of the Holy Messiah”7 can help us triumph over the self-centered and selfish tendencies of the natural man and become more selfless, benevolent, and saintly.
We are exhorted to so live that we can “stand spotless before [the Lord] at the last day.”8The Holy Ghost and Priesthood OrdinancesThe Prophet Joseph Smith summarized succinctly the essential role of priesthood ordinances in the gospel of Jesus Christ: “Being born again, comes by the Spirit of God through ordinances.”9 This penetrating statement emphasizes the roles of both the Holy Ghost and sacred ordinances in the process of spiritual rebirth.The Holy Ghost is the third member of the Godhead.
He is a personage of spirit and bears witness of all truth.
In the scriptures, the Holy Ghost is referred to as the Comforter,10 a teacher,11 and a revelator.12 Additionally, the Holy Ghost is a sanctifier13 who cleanses and burns dross and evil out of human souls as though by fire.Holy ordinances are central in the Savior’s gospel and in the process of coming unto Him and seeking spiritual rebirth.
Ordinances are sacred acts that have spiritual purpose, eternal significance, and are related to God’s laws and statutes.14 All saving ordinances and the ordinance of the sacrament must be authorized by one who holds the requisite priesthood keys.The ordinances of salvation and exaltation administered in the Lord’s restored Church are far more than rituals or symbolic performances.
Rather, they constitute authorized channels through which the blessings and powers of heaven can flow into our individual lives.“And this greater priesthood administereth the gospel and holdeth the key of the mysteries of the kingdom, even the key of the knowledge of God.“Therefore, in the ordinances thereof, the power of godliness is manifest.“And without the ordinances thereof, and the authority of the priesthood, the power of godliness is not manifest unto men in the flesh.”15Ordinances received and honored with integrity are essential to obtaining the power of godliness and all of the blessings made available through the Savior’s Atonement.Obtaining and Retaining a Remission of Sins through OrdinancesTo comprehend more fully the process whereby we may obtain and always retain a remission of our sins, we need first to understand the inseparable relationship among three sacred ordinances that provide access to the powers of heaven: baptism by immersion, laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost, and the sacrament.Baptism by immersion for the remission of sins “is the introductory ordinance of the gospel”16 of Jesus Christ and must be preceded by faith in the Savior and by sincere repentance.
This ordinance “is a sign and a commandment which God has set for [His children] to enter into His kingdom.”17 Baptism is administered in the authority of the Aaronic Priesthood.
In the process of coming unto the Savior and spiritual rebirth, baptism provides a necessary initial cleansing of our soul from sin.The baptismal covenant includes three fundamental commitments: (1) to be willing to take upon ourselves the name of Jesus Christ, (2) to always remember Him, and (3) to keep His commandments.
The promised blessing for honoring this covenant is “that [we] may always have his Spirit to be with [us].”18 Thus, baptism is the essential preparation to receive the authorized opportunity for the constant companionship of the third member of the Godhead.“Baptism [by] water … must be followed by baptism of the Spirit in order to be complete.”19 As the Savior taught Nicodemus, “Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God.”20Three statements by the Prophet Joseph Smith emphasize the vital linkage between the ordinances of baptism by immersion for the remission of sins and the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost.Statement 1: “Baptism is a holy ordinance preparatory to the reception of the Holy Ghost; it is the channel and key by which the Holy Ghost will be administered.”21Statement 2: “You might as well baptize a bag of sand as a man, if not done in view of the remission of sins and getting of the Holy Ghost.
Baptism by water is but half a baptism, and is good for nothing without the other half—that is, the baptism of the Holy Ghost.”22Statement 3: “The baptism of water, without the baptism of fire and the Holy Ghost attending it, is of no use.
They are necessarily and inseparably connected.”23The consistent connectedness among the principle of repentance, the ordinances of baptism and receiving the gift of the Holy Ghost, and the glorious blessing of the remission of sins is emphasized repeatedly in the scriptures.Nephi declared, “For the gate by which ye should enter is repentance and baptism by water; and then cometh a remission of your sins by fire and by the Holy Ghost.”24The Savior Himself proclaimed, “Now this is the commandment: Repent, all ye ends of the earth, and come unto me and be baptized in my name, that ye may be sanctified by the reception of the Holy Ghost, that ye may stand spotless before me at the last day.”25Laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost is an ordinance administered in the authority of the Melchizedek Priesthood.
In the process of coming unto the Savior and spiritual rebirth, receiving the sanctifying power of the Holy Ghost in our lives creates the possibility of an ongoing cleansing of our soul from sin.
This joyous blessing is vital because “no unclean thing can dwell with God.”26As members of the Lord’s restored Church, we are blessed both by our initial cleansing from sin associated with baptism and by the potential for an ongoing cleansing from sin made possible through the companionship and power of the Holy Ghost—even the third member of the Godhead.Consider how a farmer depends upon the unchanging pattern of planting and harvesting.
Understanding the connection between sowing and reaping is a constant source of purpose and influences all of the decisions and actions a farmer undertakes in all seasons of the year.
In like manner, the inseparable connection between the ordinances of baptism by immersion for the remission of sins and the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost should impact every aspect of our discipleship in all seasons of our lives.The sacrament is the third ordinance necessary to obtain access to the power of godliness.
That we might more fully keep ourselves unspotted from the world, we are commanded to go to the house of prayer and offer up our sacraments upon the Lord’s holy day.27 Please consider that the emblems of the Lord’s body and blood, the bread and the water, are both blessed and sanctified.
“O God, the Eternal Father, we ask thee in the name of thy Son, Jesus Christ, to bless and sanctify this bread [or this water] to the souls of all those who partake [or drink] of it.”28 To sanctify is to make pure and holy.
The sacramental emblems are sanctified in remembrance of Christ’s purity, of our total dependence upon His Atonement, and of our responsibility to so honor our ordinances and covenants that we can “stand spotless before [Him] at the last day.”29The ordinance of the sacrament is a holy and repeated invitation to repent sincerely and to be renewed spiritually.
The act of partaking of the sacrament, in and of itself, does not remit sins.
But as we prepare conscientiously and participate in this holy ordinance with a broken heart and a contrite spirit, then the promise is that we may always have the Spirit of the Lord to be with us.
And by the sanctifying power of the Holy Ghost as our constant companion, we can always retain a remission of our sins.We truly are blessed each week by the opportunity to evaluate our lives through the ordinance of the sacrament, to renew our covenants, and to receive this covenant promise.30Baptized AgainSometimes Latter-day Saints express the wish that they could be baptized again—and thereby become as clean and worthy as the day on which they received their first saving gospel ordinance.
May I respectfully suggest that our Heavenly Father and His Beloved Son do not intend for us to experience such a feeling of spiritual renewal, refreshment, and restoration just once in our lives.
The blessings of obtaining and always retaining a remission of our sins through gospel ordinances help us understand that baptism is a point of departure in our mortal spiritual journey; it is not a destination we should yearn to revisit over and over again.The ordinances of baptism by immersion, the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost, and the sacrament are not isolated and discrete events; rather, they are elements in an interrelated and additive pattern of redemptive progress.
Each successive ordinance elevates and enlarges our spiritual purpose, desire, and performance.
The Father’s plan, the Savior’s Atonement, and the ordinances of the gospel provide the grace we need to press forward and progress line upon line and precept upon precept toward our eternal destiny.Promise and TestimonyWe are imperfect human beings striving to live in mortality according to Heavenly Father’s perfect plan of eternal progression.
The requirements of His plan are glorious, merciful, and rigorous.
We may at times be filled with determination and at other times feel totally inadequate.
We may wonder if we spiritually can ever fulfill the commandment to stand spotless before Him at the last day.With the help of the Lord and through the power of His Spirit to “teach [us] all things,”31 indeed we can be blessed to realize our spiritual possibilities.
Ordinances invite spiritual purpose and power into our lives as we strive to be born again and become men and women of Christ.32 Our weaknesses can be strengthened, and our limitations can be overcome.Although none of us can achieve perfection in this life, we can become increasingly worthy and spotless as we are “cleansed by the blood of the Lamb.”33 I promise and testify we will be blessed with increased faith in the Savior and greater spiritual assurance as we seek to always retain a remission of our sins and, ultimately, to stand spotless before the Lord at the last day.
I so witness in the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.
A week ago was Easter, and our thoughts were focused again on the atoning sacrifice and Resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ.
This past year I have been thinking and pondering about the Resurrection more than normal.Nearly one year ago, our daughter Alisa died.
She had struggled with cancer for almost eight years, with several surgeries, many different treatments, exciting miracles, and deep disappointments.
We watched her physical condition deteriorate as she came to the close of her mortal life.
It was excruciating to see that happen to our precious daughter—that bright-eyed little baby who had grown up to be a talented, wonderful woman, wife, and mother.
I thought my heart would break.Last year at Easter time, a little over a month before she passed away, Alisa wrote: “Easter is a reminder of all that I hope for myself.
That someday I will be healed and someday I will be whole.
Someday I won’t have any metal or plastic inside of me.
Someday my heart will be free of fear and my mind free of anxieties.
I am not praying that this happens soon, but I am so glad I truly believe in a beautiful afterlife.”1The Resurrection of Jesus Christ ensures the very things Alisa hoped for and instills in each of us “a reason [for] the hope that is in [us].”2 President Gordon B. Hinckley referred to the Resurrection as “the greatest of all events in the history of mankind.”3The Resurrection is brought to pass by the Atonement of Jesus Christ and is pivotal to the great plan of salvation.4 We are spirit children of heavenly parents.5 When we come to this earth life, our spirit is united with our body.
We experience all the joys and challenges associated with mortal life.
When a person dies, their spirit is separated from their body.
Resurrection makes it possible for a person’s spirit and body to be united again, only this time that body will be immortal and perfect—not subject to pain, disease, or other problems.6After resurrection, the spirit will never again be separated from the body because the Savior’s Resurrection brought total victory over death.
In order to obtain our eternal destiny, we need to have this immortal soul—a spirit and body—united forever.
With spirit and immortal body inseparably connected, we can “receive a fulness of joy.”7 In fact, without the Resurrection we could never receive a fulness of joy but would be miserable forever.8 Even faithful, righteous people view the separation of their bodies from their spirits as captivity.
We are released from this captivity through the Resurrection, which is redemption from the bands or chains of death.9 There is no salvation without both our spirit and our body.Each of us has physical, mental, and emotional limitations and weaknesses.
These challenges, some of which seem so intractable now, will eventually be resolved.
None of these problems will plague us after we are resurrected.
Alisa researched survival rates for persons with the type of cancer she had, and the numbers were not encouraging.
She wrote: “But there is a cure, so I’m not scared.
Jesus has already cured my cancer, and yours.
...
I will be better.
I’m glad I know this.”10We can replace the word cancer with any of the other physical, mental, or emotional ailments we may face.
Because of the Resurrection, they have already been cured too.
The miracle of resurrection, the ultimate cure, is beyond the power of modern medicine.
But it is not beyond the power of God.
We know it can be done because the Savior is resurrected and will bring to pass the Resurrection of each of us too.11The Resurrection of the Savior proves that He is the Son of God and that what He taught is real.
“He is risen, as he said.”12 There could be no stronger proof of His divinity than Him coming forth from the grave with an immortal body.We know of witnesses to the Resurrection in New Testament times.
In addition to the women and men we read about in the Gospels, the New Testament assures us that hundreds actually saw the resurrected Lord.13 And the Book of Mormon tells of many hundreds more: “The multitude went forth, and thrust their hands into his side, … and [they] did see with their eyes and did feel with their hands, and did know of a surety and did bear record, that it was he, of whom it was written by the prophets, that should come.”14To those ancient witnesses are added witnesses in the latter days.
In fact, in the opening scene of this dispensation, Joseph Smith saw the resurrected Savior with the Father.15 Living prophets and apostles have testified of the reality of the resurrected, living Christ.16 So we may say, “We also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses.”17 And each of us can be part of a cloud of witnesses who know through the power of the Holy Ghost that what we celebrate on Easter actually happened—that the Resurrection is real.The reality of the Resurrection of the Savior overwhelms our heartbreak with hope because with it comes the assurance that all the other promises of the gospel are just as real—promises that are no less miraculous than the Resurrection.
We know that He has the power to cleanse us from all our sins.
We know that He has taken upon Himself all our infirmities, pains, and the injustices we have suffered.18 We know that He has “rise[n] from the dead, with healing in his wings.”19 We know that He can make us whole no matter what is broken in us.
We know that He “shall wipe away all tears from [our] eyes; and there shall be no more death, neither sorrow, nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain.”20 We know that we can be “made perfect through Jesus … , who wrought out this perfect atonement,”21 if we will just have faith and follow Him.Toward the end of the inspiring oratorio Messiah, Handel put to beautiful music the Apostle Paul’s words that rejoice over the Resurrection.“Behold, I [tell] you a mystery; We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed,“In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trump: … the trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed.“For this corruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal must put on immortality.“… Then shall be brought to pass the saying that is written, Death is swallowed up in victory.“O death, where is thy sting?
O grave, where is thy victory?
…“But thanks be to God, which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ.”22I am grateful for the blessings that are ours because of the Atonement and Resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ.
For all who have laid a child in a grave or wept over the casket of a spouse or grieved over the death of a parent or someone they loved, the Resurrection is a source of great hope.
What a powerful experience it will be to see them again—not just as spirits but with resurrected bodies.I long to see my mother again and feel her gentle touch and look into her loving eyes.
I want to see my father’s smile and hear his laugh and see him as a resurrected, perfect being.
With an eye of faith, I picture Alisa completely beyond the reach of any earthly troubles or any sting of death—a resurrected, perfected Alisa, victorious and with a fulness of joy.A few Easters ago, she wrote simply: “Life through His name.
So much hope.
Always.
Through everything.
I love Easter to remind me.”23I testify of the reality of the Resurrection.
Jesus Christ lives, and because of Him, we will all live again.
In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
Babylon and DanielTwenty-six hundred years ago, Babylon was the world’s great superpower.
One ancient historian described the walls of Babylon that surrounded the city as more than 300 feet (90 m) high and 80 feet (25 m) thick.
“In magnificence,” he wrote, “there is no other city that approaches … it.”1In its day, Babylon was the world’s center of learning, law, and philosophy.
Its military might was unparalleled.
It shattered the power of Egypt.
It invaded, torched, and looted the Assyrian capital, Nineveh.
It easily conquered Jerusalem and carried away the best and brightest of the children of Israel back to Babylon to serve King Nebuchadnezzar.One of these captives was a young man by the name of Daniel.
Many scholars believe that Daniel was between 12 and 17 years old at the time.
Think of it, my beloved young Aaronic Priesthood holders: Daniel was very likely your age when he was taken into the king’s court to be educated in the language, laws, religion, and science of the worldly Babylon.Can you imagine what it would have felt like to be forced from your home, marched 500 miles (800 km) to a foreign city, and indoctrinated in the religion of your enemies?Daniel had been raised as a follower of Jehovah.
He believed in and worshipped the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.
He had studied the words of the prophets, and he knew of God’s interaction with man.But now, at a very young age, he was a prisoner-student in Babylon.
The pressure on him must have been immense to abandon his old beliefs and adopt those of Babylon.
But he stayed true to his faith—in word and in deed.Many of you know how it feels to defend an unpopular truth.
In the Internet slang of today, we talk about getting “flamed” by those who disagree with us.
But Daniel wasn’t just risking public ridicule.
In Babylon, those who challenged the religious authorities understood what it means—figuratively and literally—to be “flamed.” Just ask Daniel’s friends Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego.2I don’t know if it was easy for Daniel to be a believer in such an environment.
Some people are blessed with a believing heart—for them, faith seems to come as a gift from heaven.
But I imagine that Daniel was like many of us who have to work for our testimonies.
I’m confident that Daniel spent many hours on his knees praying, laying his questions and fears on the altar of faith, and waiting upon the Lord for understanding and wisdom.And the Lord did bless Daniel.
Though his faith was challenged and ridiculed, he stayed true to what he knew by his own experience to be right.Daniel believed.
Daniel did not doubt.And then one night, King Nebuchadnezzar had a dream that troubled his mind.
He assembled his team of scholars and counselors and demanded that they describe the dream to him and also reveal the meaning of it.Of course, they could not.
“No one can do what you ask,” they pleaded.
But this only made Nebuchadnezzar more furious, and he commanded that all the wise men, magicians, astrologers, and counselors be cut in pieces—including Daniel and the other young students from Israel.You who are familiar with the book of Daniel know what happened next.
Daniel asked Nebuchadnezzar for a little extra time, and he and his faithful companions went to the source of their faith and moral strength.
They prayed to God and asked for divine help at this crucial moment in their lives.
And “then was the secret revealed unto Daniel in a … vision.”3Daniel, the young boy from a conquered nation—who had been bullied and persecuted for believing in his strange religion—went before the king and revealed to him the dream and its interpretation.From that day on, as a direct result of his faithfulness to God, Daniel became a trusted counselor to the king, renowned for his wisdom in all of Babylon.The boy who believed and lived his faith had become a man of God.
A prophet.
A prince of righteousness.4Are We like Daniel?To all of us who bear the holy priesthood of God, I ask, are we like Daniel?Do we stand loyal to God?Do we practice what we preach, or are we Sunday Christians only?Do our daily actions reflect clearly what we claim to believe?Do we help “the poor and the needy, the sick and the afflicted”?5Do we just talk the talk, or do we enthusiastically walk the walk?Brethren, we have been given much.
We have been taught the divine truths of the restored gospel of Jesus Christ.
We have been entrusted with priesthood authority to help our fellowmen and build up God’s kingdom on earth.
We live in a time of great outpouring of spiritual power.
We have the fulness of truth.
We have priesthood keys to seal on earth and in heaven.
Sacred scriptures and teachings of living prophets and apostles are available as never before.My dear friends, let us not take these things lightly.
With these blessings and privileges come great responsibilities and obligations.
Let us rise up to them.The ancient city of Babylon is in ruins.
Its splendor is long gone.
But Babylon’s worldliness and wickedness live on.
Now it falls to us to live as believers in a world of disbelief.
The challenge is ours to daily practice the principles of the restored gospel of Jesus Christ and to live true to God’s commandments.
We will have to stay calm under peer pressure, not be impressed by popular trends or false prophets, disregard the ridicule of the ungodly, resist the temptations of the evil one, and overcome our own laziness.Just think about it.
How much easier would it have been for Daniel to simply go along with the ways of Babylon?
He could have set aside the restrictive code of conduct God had given the children of Israel.
He could have feasted on the rich foods provided by the king and indulged in the worldly pleasures of the natural man.
He would have avoided ridicule.He would have been popular.He would have fit in.His path might have been much less complicated.That is, of course, until the day when the king demanded an interpretation of his dream.
Then Daniel would have found that he, like the rest of Babylon’s “wise men,” had lost his connection to the true source of light and wisdom.Daniel passed his test.
Ours still continues.The Courage to BelieveSatan, our adversary, wants us to fail.
He spreads lies as part of his effort to destroy our belief.
He slyly suggests that the doubter, the skeptic, the cynic is sophisticated and intelligent, while those who have faith in God and His miracles are naive, blind, or brainwashed.
Satan will advocate that it is cool to doubt spiritual gifts and the teachings of true prophets.I wish I could help everyone to understand this one simple fact: we believe in God because of things we know with our heart and mind, not because of things we do not know.
Our spiritual experiences are sometimes too sacred to explain in worldly terms, but that doesn’t mean they are not real.Heavenly Father has prepared for His children a spiritual feast, offering every kind of exquisite food imaginable—and yet, instead of enjoying these spiritual gifts, the cynics content themselves with observing from a distance, sipping from their cups of skepticism, doubt, and disrespect.Why would anyone walk through life satisfied with the light from the candle of their own understanding when, by reaching out to our Heavenly Father, they could experience the bright sun of spiritual knowledge that would expand their minds with wisdom and fill their souls with joy?When you and I talk to people about faith and belief, don’t we often hear, “I wish I could believe the way you do”?Implied in such a statement is another of Satan’s deceptions: that belief is available to some people but not to others.
There is no magic to belief.
But wanting to believe is the necessary first step!
God is no respecter of persons.6 He is your Father.
He wants to speak to you.
However, it requires a little scientific curiosity—it requires an experiment upon the word of God—and the exercise of a “particle of faith.”7 It also takes a little humility.
And it requires an open heart and an open mind.
It requires seeking, in the full meaning of the word.
And, perhaps hardest of all, it requires being patient and waiting upon the Lord.If we make no effort to believe, we are like the man who unplugs a spotlight and then blames the spotlight for not giving any light.Recently I was surprised and saddened to hear of an Aaronic Priesthood bearer who seemed to take pride in the fact that he had distanced himself from God.
He said, “If God reveals Himself to me, then I will believe.
Until then, I will find the truth relying on my own understanding and intellect to light the way before me.”I don’t know this young man’s heart, but I couldn’t help but feel terribly sorry for him.
How easily he rejected the gifts the Lord was offering him.
This young man had unplugged the spotlight and then seemed self-satisfied in his clever observation that there was no light.Unfortunately, this seems to be quite a popular attitude today.
If we can put the burden of proof on God, we think we can excuse ourselves from taking God’s commandments seriously and from taking responsibility for our relationship with our Heavenly Father.Brethren, let me be clear: there is nothing noble or impressive about being cynical.
Skepticism is easy—anyone can do it.
It is the faithful life that requires moral strength, dedication, and courage.
Those who hold fast to faith are far more impressive than those who give in to doubt when mysterious questions or concerns arise.But it should not surprise us that faith is not valued by society.
The world has a long history of rejecting that which it does not understand.
And it has particular trouble understanding things it cannot see.
But just because we cannot see something with our physical eyes does not mean it doesn’t exist.
Indeed, “there are more things in heaven and earth … than are dreamt of” in our textbooks, scientific journals, and worldly philosophies.8 The universe is filled with wonders profound and astonishing—things that can be comprehended only through spiritual eyes.The Promise of BeliefWhen we choose to believe, exercise faith unto repentance, and follow our Savior, Jesus Christ, we open our spiritual eyes to splendors we can scarcely imagine.
Thus our belief and faith will grow stronger, and we will see even more.9Brethren, I testify that even in the toughest of times, the Savior will say to you as He said to an anxious father on a crowded street in Galilee, “Be not afraid, only believe.”10We can choose to believe.For in belief, we discover the dawn of light.We will discover truth.11We will find peace.12Because of our belief, we will never hunger, never thirst.13 The gifts of God’s grace will enable us to be true to our faith and will fill our soul like “a well of water springing up into everlasting life.”14 We will experience true and lasting joy.15Therefore, my dear friends, my beloved brethren in the priesthood of God:Have courage to believe.Be not afraid, only believe.Stand with Daniel.I pray that each one of us—young and old—will find renewed strength, courage, and desire to believe.
In the name of our Master, Jesus Christ, amen.
I add my witness to the messages of President Russell M. Nelson and Elder Quentin L. Cook given moments ago of the harmony and unanimity of the Council of the First Presidency and Quorum of the Twelve Apostles.
I know these revelatory announcements are the mind and the will of the Lord and will bless and strengthen individuals, families, and The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints for generations to come.Some years ago, one of our young married daughters and her husband asked Sister Rasband and me a very important, life-influencing question: “Is it still safe and wise to bring children into this seemingly wicked and frightening world we live in?”Now, that was an important question for a mom and dad to consider with their dear married children.
We could hear the fear in their voices and feel the fear in their hearts.
Our answer to them was a firm “Yes, it’s more than OK,” as we shared fundamental gospel teachings and our own heartfelt impressions and life experiences.Fear is not new.
The disciples of Jesus Christ, out on the Sea of Galilee, feared the “wind, and the waves” in the dark of the night.1 As His disciples today, we too have fears.
Our single adults fear making commitments such as getting married.
Young marrieds, like our children, can fear bringing children into an increasingly wicked world.
Missionaries fear lots of things, especially approaching strangers.
Widows fear going forward alone.
Teenagers fear not being accepted; grade schoolers fear the first day of school; university students fear getting back a test.
We fear failure, rejection, disappointment, and the unknown.
We fear hurricanes, earthquakes, and fires that ravage the land and our lives.
We fear not being chosen, and on the flip side, we fear being chosen.
We fear not being good enough; we fear that the Lord has no blessings for us.
We fear change, and our fears can escalate to terror.
Have I included just about everyone?Since ancient times, fear has limited the perspective of God’s children.
I have always loved the account of Elisha in 2 Kings.
The king of Syria had sent a legion that “came by night, and compassed the city about.”2 Their intent was to capture and kill the prophet Elisha.
We read:“And when the servant of the man of God was risen early, and gone forth, behold, an host compassed the city both with horses and chariots.
And his servant said unto him, Alas, my master!
how shall we do?”3That was fear speaking.“And [Elisha] answered, Fear not: for they that be with us are more than they that be with them.”4But he didn’t stop there.“Elisha prayed, and said, Lord, I pray thee, open his eyes, that he may see.
And the Lord opened the eyes of the young man; and he saw: and, behold, the mountain was full of horses and chariots of fire round about Elisha.”5We may or may not have chariots of fire sent to dispel our fears and conquer our demons, but the lesson is clear.
The Lord is with us, mindful of us and blessing us in ways only He can do.
Prayer can call down the strength and the revelation that we need to center our thoughts on Jesus Christ and His atoning sacrifice.
The Lord knew that at times we would feel fear.
I have been there and so have you, which is why the scriptures are replete with the Lord’s counsel:“Be of good cheer, and do not fear.”6“Look unto me in every thought; doubt not, fear not.”7“Fear not, little flock.”8 I love the tenderness of “little flock.” In this Church we may be few in number by the way the world counts influence, but when we open our spiritual eyes, “they that be with us are more than they that be with them.”9 Our loving Shepherd, Jesus Christ, then continues, “Let earth and hell combine against you, for if ye are built upon my rock, they cannot prevail.”10How is fear dispelled?
For the young lad, he was standing right next to Elisha, a prophet of God.
We have that same promise.
When we listen to President Russell M. Nelson, when we hearken to his counsel, we are standing with a prophet of God.
Remember the words of Joseph Smith: “And now, after the many testimonies which have been given of him, this is the testimony, last of all, which we give of him: That he lives!”11 Jesus Christ lives.
Our love for Him and His gospel dispels fear.Our desire to “always have his Spirit”12 with us will push fear aside for a more eternal view of our mortal lives.
President Nelson has cautioned, “In coming days, it will not be possible to survive spiritually without the guiding, directing, comforting, and constant influence of the Holy Ghost.”13The Lord said, regarding the scourges that would cover the land and would harden the hearts of many, “My disciples shall stand in holy places, and shall not be moved.”14And then this divine counsel: “Be not troubled, for, when all these things shall come to pass, ye may know that the promises which have been made unto you shall be fulfilled.”15Stand in holy places—be not troubled—and promises shall be fulfilled.
Let’s look at each one of these in relation to our fears.First, stand in holy places.
When we stand in holy places—our righteous homes, our dedicated chapels, the consecrated temples—we feel the Spirit of the Lord with us.
We find answers to questions that trouble us or the peace to simply set them aside.
That is the Spirit in action.
These sacred places in the kingdom of God on earth call for our reverence, our respect for others, our best selves in living the gospel, and our hopes to lay aside our fears and seek the healing power of Jesus Christ through His Atonement.There is no room for fear in these holy places of God or in the hearts of His children.
Why?
Because of love.
God loves us—always—and we love Him.
Our love of God counters all fears, and His love abounds in holy places.
Think about it.
When we are tentative in our commitments to the Lord, when we stray from His path leading to life eternal, when we question or doubt our significance in His divine design, when we allow fear to open the door to all its companions—discouragement, anger, frustration, disappointment—the Spirit leaves us, and we are without the Lord.
If you know what that is like, you know it is not a good place to be.
In contrast, when we stand in holy places, we can feel God’s love, and “perfect love casteth out all fear.”16The next promise is “Be not troubled.”17 No matter how much wickedness and chaos fill the earth, we are promised by our daily faithfulness in Jesus Christ the “peace of God, which passeth all understanding.”18 And when Christ comes in all power and glory, evil, rebellion, and injustice will end.Long ago the Apostle Paul prophesied of our times, saying to the young Timothy:“This know also, that in the last days perilous times shall come.“For men shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous, boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy, …“… lovers of pleasures more than lovers of God.”19Remember, “they that be with us” on both sides of the veil, those who love the Lord with all their heart, might, mind, and strength, “are more than they that be with them.”20 If we actively trust in the Lord and His ways, if we are engaged in His work, we will not fear the trends of the world or be troubled by them.
I plead with you to set aside worldly influences and pressures and seek spirituality in your daily life.
Love what the Lord loves—which includes His commandments, His holy houses, our sacred covenants with Him, the sacrament each Sabbath day, our communication through prayer—and you will not be troubled.The last point: trust the Lord and His promises.
I know that all His promises will be fulfilled.
I know it as firmly as I stand here before you in this sacred meeting.The Lord has revealed: “For they that are wise and have received the truth, and have taken the Holy Spirit for their guide, and have not been deceived—verily I say unto you, they shall not be hewn down and cast into the fire, but shall abide the day.”21This is why we should not be troubled by the turmoil of today, by those in the great and spacious building, by those who scoff at honest effort and dedicated service to the Lord Jesus Christ.
Optimism, courage, even charity come from a heart not burdened by troubles or turmoil.
President Nelson, who is “optimistic about the future,” has reminded us, “If we are to have any hope of sifting through the myriad of voices and the philosophies of men that attack truth, we must learn to receive revelation.”22To receive personal revelation, we must place priority on living the gospel and encouraging faithfulness and spirituality in others as well as ourselves.Spencer W. Kimball was one of the prophets of my youth.
These past few years, after being called as an Apostle, I have found peace in his first message at general conference in October 1943.
He was overwhelmed by his call; I know what that feels like.
Elder Kimball said: “I did a great deal of thinking and praying, and fasting and praying.
There were conflicting thoughts that surged through my mind—seeming voices saying: ‘You can’t do the work.
You are not worthy.
You have not the ability’—and always finally came the triumphant thought: ‘You must do the work assigned—you must make yourself able, worthy and qualified.’ And the battle raged on.”23I take heart from that purehearted testimony of this Apostle who would become the 12th President of this mighty Church.
He recognized he had to put behind him his fears to “do the work assigned” and that he had to rely on the Lord for the strength to make himself “able, worthy and qualified.” We can too.
The battles will rage on, but we will face them with the Spirit of the Lord.
We will “be not troubled” because when we stand with the Lord and stand for His principles and His eternal plan, we are standing on holy ground.Now, what about that daughter and son-in-law who asked the very heartfelt and probing, fear-based question years ago?
They seriously considered our conversation that night; they prayed and fasted and came to their own conclusions.
Happily and joyfully for them and for us, the grandparents, they have now been blessed with seven beautiful children as they go forward in faith and love.Take heart, brothers and sisters.
Yes, we live in perilous times, but as we stay on the covenant path, we need not fear.
I bless you that as you do so, you will not be troubled by the times in which we live or the troubles that come your way.
I bless you to choose to stand in holy places and be not moved.
I bless you to believe in the promises of Jesus Christ, that He lives and that He is watching over us, caring for us and standing by us.
In the name of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, amen.
This has been an inspirational and historic conference.
We look to the future with enthusiasm.
We have been motivated to do better and to be better.
The marvelous messages delivered from this pulpit by our General Authorities and General Officers and the music have been sublime!
I urge you to study these messages, commencing this week.1 They express the mind and the will of the Lord for His people, today.The new home-centered, Church-supported integrated curriculum has the potential to unleash the power of families, as each family follows through conscientiously and carefully to transform their home into a sanctuary of faith.
I promise that as you diligently work to remodel your home into a center of gospel learning, over time your Sabbath days will truly be a delight.
Your children will be excited to learn and to live the Savior’s teachings, and the influence of the adversary in your life and in your home will decrease.
Changes in your family will be dramatic and sustaining.During this conference we have strengthened our resolve to execute the essential effort to honor the Lord Jesus Christ every time we refer to His Church.
I promise you that our rigorous attention to use the correct name of the Savior’s Church and its members will lead to increased faith and access to greater spiritual power for members of His Church.Now let’s turn to the topic of temples.
We know that our time in the temple is crucial to our salvation and exaltation and to that of our families.After we receive our own temple ordinances and make sacred covenants with God, each one of us needs the ongoing spiritual strengthening and tutoring that is possible only in the house of the Lord.
And our ancestors need us to serve as proxy for them.Consider the great mercy and fairness of God, who, before the foundation of the world, provided a way to give temple blessings to those who died without a knowledge of the gospel.
These sacred temple rites are ancient.
To me that antiquity is thrilling and another evidence of their authenticity.2My dear brothers and sisters, the assaults of the adversary are increasing exponentially, in intensity and in variety.3 Our need to be in the temple on a regular basis has never been greater.
I plead with you to take a prayerful look at how you spend your time.
Invest time in your future and in that of your family.
If you have reasonable access to a temple, I urge you to find a way to make an appointment regularly with the Lord—to be in His holy house—then keep that appointment with exactness and joy.
I promise you that the Lord will bring the miracles He knows you need as you make sacrifices to serve and worship in His temples.Currently we have 159 dedicated temples.
The proper care and maintenance of those temples is very important to us.
With the passage of time, temples are inevitably in need of refreshing and renewal.
To that end, plans are now being made to renovate and update the Salt Lake Temple and other pioneer-generation temples.
Details on these projects will be shared as they are developed.Today we are pleased to announce plans to construct 12 more temples.
Those temples will be built in the following locations: Mendoza, Argentina; Salvador, Brazil; Yuba City, California; Phnom Penh, Cambodia; Praia, Cape Verde; Yigo, Guam; Puebla, Mexico; Auckland, New Zealand; Lagos, Nigeria; Davao, Philippines; San Juan, Puerto Rico; and Washington County, Utah.Building and maintaining temples may not change your life, but spending your time in the temple surely will.
To those who have long been absent from the temple, I encourage you to prepare and return as soon as possible.
Then I invite you to worship in the temple and pray to feel deeply the Savior’s infinite love for you, that each of you may gain your own testimony that He directs this sacred and ageless work.4Brothers and sisters, I thank you for your faith and sustaining efforts.
I leave my love and blessing upon you, that you may feast upon the word of the Lord and apply His teachings in your personal lives.
I assure you that revelation continues in the Church and will continue until “the purposes of God shall be accomplished, and the Great Jehovah shall say the work is done.”5I bless you with increased faith in Him and in His holy work, with faith and patience to endure your personal challenges in life.
I bless you to become exemplary Latter-day Saints.
I so bless you and bear my testimony that God lives!
Jesus is the Christ!
This is His Church.
We are His people, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
Paul shared a wonderful message of hope with the Corinthians:“We are troubled on every side, yet not distressed; we are perplexed, but not in despair;“Persecuted, but not forsaken; cast down, but not destroyed.”1What was the source of Paul’s hope?
Listen to his explanation: “For God, who commanded the light to shine out of darkness, hath shined in our hearts, to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ.”2Even in the most difficult and darkest of times, there is light and goodness all around us.
Last October, President Dieter F. Uchtdorf reminded us, “We are surrounded by such an astonishing wealth of light and truth that I wonder if we truly appreciate what we have.”3However, the adversary would rather have us focus on “mists of darkness … which blindeth the eyes, … hardeneth … hearts … , and … leadeth … away.”4Nevertheless, with perfect understanding of the challenges of our day, the Lord promises, “That which is of God is light; and he that receiveth light, and continueth in God, receiveth more light; and that light groweth brighter and brighter until the perfect day.”5We are children of God.
Receiving light, continuing in God, and receiving more light are what we are created to do.
From the very beginning, we followed the light; we followed our Heavenly Father and His plan.
Seeking the light is in our spiritual DNA.I heard this eternal truth taught beautifully in an unexpected place.
While I was working for a large bank, I was invited to attend an executive program at the University of Michigan.
During the program, Professor Kim Cameron taught the concept of positive leadership and its heliotropic effect.
He explained: “This refers to the tendency in all living systems toward positive energy [light] and away from negative energy [darkness].
From single-cell organisms to complex human systems, everything alive has an inherent inclination toward the positive and away from the negative.”6Supported by a wealth of studies, he also focused on three critical components of a successful workplace culture: compassion, forgiveness, and gratitude.7 It makes perfect sense that as people turn towards the positive (light), the attributes perfectly exemplified by the Light of the World, Jesus Christ, are present!Brothers and sisters, please take comfort that there is light available to us.
May I suggest three areas where we will always find light:1.
The Light of the ChurchThe Church is a beacon of light to a darkening world.
This is a wonderful time to be a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints!
The Church is stronger than it has ever been8 and quite literally grows stronger each day as new members join us, new congregations are formed, new missionaries are called, and new territories are opened to the gospel.
We see those who have slipped from activity in the Church for a time returning as the rescue envisioned by President Thomas S. Monson brings daily miracles.I recently visited with youth in Paraguay, Uruguay, Chile, and Argentina during their For the Strength of Youth conferences.
Thousands and thousands of young men and women spent a week strengthening their love of the Savior and then returned home to their families and friends, radiating the light and love of Christ.Look, the Church will always have its critics.
It has been that way from the beginning and will continue to the end.
But we cannot allow such criticism to dull our sensitivity to the light that is available to us.
Recognizing the light and seeking after it will qualify us for even more light.In a darkening world, the light of the Church will shine brighter and brighter until the perfect day.2.
The Light of the GospelThe light of the gospel is the path that “shineth more and more unto the perfect day,”9 and it shines brightest in our families and in temples throughout the world.Preach My Gospel states: “Through the light of the gospel, families can resolve misunderstandings, contentions, and challenges.
Families torn by discord can be healed through repentance, forgiveness, and faith in the power of the Atonement of Jesus Christ.”10 Now more than ever, our families must be sources of great light to everyone around us.
Families increase in light as they increase in love and kindness.
As we establish families of “faith, … repentance, forgiveness, respect, love, [and] compassion,”11 we will feel an increase in love towards the Savior and towards one another.
The family will grow stronger, and the light in each of us will grow brighter.We read in the Bible Dictionary that “only the home can compare with the temple in sacredness.”12 We now have 155 operating temples and more coming soon.
More and more families are sealed for time and all eternity.
Members are submitting more and more names of ancestors to the temple to perform their saving ordinances.
We truly are experiencing great joy and celebration on both sides of the veil!In a darkening world, the light of the gospel will shine brighter and brighter until the perfect day.3.
The Light of ChristYou cannot speak of the light in the world without speaking of the Light of the World, Jesus Christ.
A manifestation of a loving Heavenly Father is that everyone who comes to this life is blessed with the Light of Christ to help them return home.
President Boyd K. Packer taught: “The Spirit of Christ is always there.
… The Light of Christ is as universal as sunlight itself.
Wherever there is human life, there is the Spirit of Christ.”13 The Light of Christ “inviteth and enticeth to do good continually”14 and prepares all who seek goodness and truth to receive the Holy Ghost.The Savior teaches that He is the light that “enlighteneth your eyes,” “quickeneth your understandings,” and “giveth life to all things.”15 The Light of Christ will help us see others through the Savior’s eyes.
We will be more loving and understanding of the struggles of others.
It will help us be more patient with those who may not worship as we do or serve as we might.
It will help us understand the great plan of happiness more fully and see how we all fit into that great loving plan.
It gives life, meaning, and purpose to all that we do.
Now, with all the happiness that will come to us as we more fully understand the Light of Christ, it will not match the joy that we feel when we see the Light of Christ working in others: family, friends, and even complete strangers.I felt that joy when I heard about the efforts of a brave group of firefighters who fought to save a burning stake center in Southern California in 2015.
As the fire raged, a battalion commander called an LDS friend to ask where the sacred relics and sacrament cups were kept so they could be saved.
His friend assured him that there were no sacred relics and that the sacrament cups were actually very, very replaceable.
But the commander felt he should do more, so he sent firefighters back into the burning building to pull every painting of Christ off of the walls that they might be preserved.
They even placed one in the firetruck in the hope that the firefighters might be watched over.
I was truly touched by the commander’s kindness, goodness, and sensitivity to the Light during a dangerous and difficult time.In a darkening world, the Light of Christ will shine brighter and brighter until the perfect day!I again echo the words of Paul: “Let us put on the armour of light.”16 I testify of Christ.
He is the Light of the World.
May we be strengthened by the light that is available to us through greater participation at church and greater application of gospel principles in our families.
May we see the Light of Christ in others constantly and help them see it in themselves.
As we receive that light, we will be blessed with more light, even until the perfect day when we again see “the Father of lights,”17 our Heavenly Father.
I so testify in the holy name of the Light of the World, even Jesus Christ, amen.
Dear Brethren: As directed by revelation in section 120 of the Doctrine and Covenants, the Council on the Disposition of the Tithes—composed of the First Presidency, the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, and the Presiding Bishopric—authorizes the expenditure of Church funds.
Church entities disburse funds in accordance with approved budgets, policies, and procedures.The Church Auditing Department, which consists of credentialed professionals and is independent of all other Church departments, has responsibility to perform audits for the purpose of providing reasonable assurance regarding contributions received, expenditures made, and safeguarding of Church assets.Based upon audits performed, the Church Auditing Department is of the opinion that, in all material respects, contributions received, expenditures made, and assets of the Church for the year 2013 have been recorded and administered in accordance with approved Church budgets, policies, and accounting practices.
The Church follows the practices taught to its members of living within a budget, avoiding debt, and saving against a time of need.Respectfully submitted,Church Auditing DepartmentKevin R. JergensenManaging Director
Dear Brethren: As directed by revelation in section 120 of the Doctrine and Covenants, the Council on the Disposition of the Tithes—composed of the First Presidency, the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, and the Presiding Bishopric—authorizes the expenditure of Church funds.
Church entities disburse funds in accordance with approved budgets, policies, and procedures.The Church Auditing Department, which consists of credentialed professionals and is independent of all other Church departments, has responsibility to perform audits for the purpose of providing reasonable assurance regarding contributions received, expenditures made, and safeguarding of Church assets.Based upon audits performed, the Church Auditing Department is of the opinion that, in all material respects, contributions received, expenditures made, and assets of the Church for the year 2014 have been recorded and administered in accordance with approved Church budgets, policies, and accounting practices.
The Church follows the practices taught to its members of living within a budget, avoiding debt, and saving against a time of need.Respectfully submitted,Church Auditing DepartmentKevin R. JergensenManaging Director
Dear Brethren: As directed by revelation in section 120 of the Doctrine and Covenants, the Council on the Disposition of the Tithes—composed of the First Presidency, the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, and the Presiding Bishopric—authorizes the expenditure of Church funds.
Church entities disburse funds in accordance with approved budgets, policies, and procedures.The Church Auditing Department, which consists of credentialed professionals and is independent of all other Church departments, has responsibility to perform audits for the purpose of providing reasonable assurance regarding contributions received, expenditures made, and safeguarding of Church assets.Based upon audits performed, the Church Auditing Department is of the opinion that, in all material respects, contributions received, expenditures made, and assets of the Church for the year 2015 have been recorded and administered in accordance with approved Church budgets, policies, and accounting practices.
The Church follows the practices taught to its members of living within a budget, avoiding debt, and saving against a time of need.Respectfully submitted,Church Auditing DepartmentKevin R. JergensenManaging Director
Dear Brethren: As directed by revelation in section 120 of the Doctrine and Covenants, the Council on the Disposition of the Tithes—composed of the First Presidency, the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, and the Presiding Bishopric—authorizes the expenditure of Church funds.
Church entities disburse funds in accordance with approved budgets, policies, and procedures.The Church Auditing Department, which consists of credentialed professionals and is independent of all other Church departments, has responsibility to perform audits for the purpose of providing reasonable assurance regarding contributions received, expenditures made, and safeguarding of Church assets.Based upon audits performed, the Church Auditing Department is of the opinion that, in all material respects, contributions received, expenditures made, and assets of the Church for the year 2016 have been recorded and administered in accordance with approved Church budgets, policies, and accounting practices.
The Church follows the practices taught to its members of living within a budget, avoiding debt, and saving against a time of need.Respectfully submitted,Church Auditing DepartmentKevin R. JergensenManaging Director
Dear Brethren: As directed by revelation in section 120 of the Doctrine and Covenants, the Council on the Disposition of the Tithes—composed of the First Presidency, the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, and the Presiding Bishopric—authorizes the expenditure of Church funds.
Church entities disburse funds in accordance with approved budgets, policies, and procedures.Church Auditing, which consists of credentialed professionals and is independent of all other Church departments, has responsibility to perform audits for the purpose of providing reasonable assurance regarding contributions received, expenditures made, and safeguarding of Church assets.Based upon audits performed, Church Auditing is of the opinion that, in all material respects, contributions received, expenditures made, and assets of the Church for the year 2017 have been recorded and administered in accordance with approved Church budgets, policies, and accounting practices.
The Church follows the practices taught to its members of living within a budget, avoiding debt, and saving against a time of need.Respectfully submitted,Church Auditing DepartmentKevin R. JergensenManaging Director
In speaking of the President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the Lord proclaimed:“And again, the duty of the President of the office of the High Priesthood is to preside over the whole church, and to be like unto Moses—“… Yea, to be a seer, a revelator, a translator, and a prophet, having all the gifts of God which he bestows upon the head of the church” (Doctrine and Covenants 107:91–92; emphasis added).I have been blessed to witness some of the gifts of God upon His prophets.
May I share one such sacred experience with you?
Prior to my current calling, I assisted in identifying and recommending future temple sites.
After September 11, 2001, crossings along the U.S. borders became more controlled.
As a result, it took two to three hours for many Church members to make the crossing from Vancouver, Canada, while going to the Seattle Washington Temple.
President Gordon B. Hinckley, President of the Church at that time, suggested that a temple in Vancouver would bless members of the Church.
A site search was authorized, and after we examined several Church-owned properties, other sites not owned by the Church were also investigated.A beautiful site with religious zoning adjacent to the Trans-Canadian Highway was found.
The property had excellent access, was dotted with beautiful Canadian pine trees, and enjoyed a prominent location which would make it visible to thousands of passing motorists.We presented the site with pictures and maps in the monthly Temple Sites Committee meeting.
President Hinckley authorized that we place it under contract and complete the necessary studies.
In December of that year, we reported back to the committee that the studies were complete, and we sought approval to proceed with the purchase.
After hearing our report, President Hinckley said, “I feel I should see this site.”Later that month, two days after Christmas, we left for Vancouver with President Hinckley; President Thomas S. Monson; and Bill Williams, a temple architect.
We were met by Paul Christensen, the local stake president, who transported us to the site.
It was a little wet and misty that day, but President Hinckley jumped out of the car and began walking all over the site.After spending time on the site, I asked President Hinckley if he would like to see some of the other sites that had been considered.
He said yes, he would like that.
You see, by looking at the other sites, we were able to make a comparison of their virtues.We did a large clockwise loop around Vancouver looking at the other properties, ultimately arriving back at the original site.
President Hinckley said, “This is a beautiful site.” Then he asked, “Can we go to the Church-owned meetinghouse about one-quarter mile [0.4 km] away?”“Of course, President,” we responded.We got back into the cars and drove to the nearby meetinghouse.
As we arrived at the chapel, President Hinckley said, “Turn left here.” We turned and followed the street as instructed.
The street began to rise slightly.Just as the car reached the crown of the rise, President Hinckley said, “Stop the car, stop the car.” He then pointed to the right at a parcel of ground and said, “What about this property?
This is where the temple goes.
This is where the Lord wants the temple.
Can you get it?
Can you get it?”We hadn’t looked at this property.
It was farther back and away from the main road, and it was not listed for sale.
When we responded we didn’t know, President Hinckley pointed to the property and said again, “This is where the temple goes.” We stayed a few minutes, then left for the airport to return home.The next day, Brother Williams and I were called to President Hinckley’s office.
He had drawn out everything on a piece of paper: the roads, the chapel, turn left here, X marks the spot for the temple.
He asked what we had found out.
We told him he couldn’t have picked a more difficult property.
It was owned by three individuals: one from Canada, one from India, and one from China!
And it didn’t have the necessary religious zoning.“Well, do your best,” he said.Then the miracles happened.
Within several months we owned the property, and later the city of Langley, British Columbia, gave permission to build the temple.In reflecting upon this experience, I am humbled by the realization that while Brother Williams and I possessed formal education and years of experience in real estate and temple design, President Hinckley had no such formal training, but he had something far greater—the gift of prophetic seership.
He was able to envision where God’s temple should stand.When the Lord commanded the early Saints in this dispensation to construct a temple, He declared:“But let a house be built unto my name according to the pattern which I will show unto them.“And if my people build it not according to the pattern which I shall show … , I will not accept it at their hands” (Doctrine and Covenants 115:14–15).As with the early Saints, so it is with us today: the Lord has revealed and continues to reveal to the President of the Church the patterns by which the kingdom of God is to be directed in our day.
And, at a personal level, he provides guidance as to how each of us should direct our lives, such that our conduct may likewise be acceptable to the Lord.In April 2013 I spoke about the efforts involved in preparing every temple’s foundation to ensure that it can withstand the storms and calamities to which it will be subjected.
But the foundation is just the beginning.
A temple is composed of many building blocks, fitted together according to predesigned patterns.
If our lives are to become the temples each of us is striving to construct as taught by the Lord (see 1 Corinthians 3:16–17), we could reasonably ask ourselves, “What building blocks should we put in place in order to make our lives beautiful, majestic, and resistant to the storms of the world?”We can find the answer to this question in the Book of Mormon.
Concerning the Book of Mormon, the Prophet Joseph Smith said, “I told the brethren that the Book of Mormon was the most correct of any book on earth, and the keystone of our religion, and a man would get nearer to God by abiding by its precepts, than by any other book” (introduction to the Book of Mormon).
In the introduction to the Book of Mormon, we are taught that “those who gain [a] divine witness from the Holy Spirit [that the Book of Mormon is the word of God] will also come to know by the same power that Jesus Christ is the Savior of the world, that Joseph Smith is His revelator and [prophet of the Restoration], and that The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the Lord’s kingdom once again established on the earth.”These then are some essential building blocks of our individual faith and testimony:Jesus Christ is the Savior of the world.The Book of Mormon is the word of God.The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the kingdom of God on the earth.Joseph Smith is a prophet, and we have living prophets on the earth today.In recent months, I have listened to every general conference address which President Nelson has given since he was first called as an Apostle.
This exercise has changed my life.
As I studied and pondered 34 years of President Nelson’s collected wisdom, clear and consistent themes emerged from his teachings.
Each of these themes relates to those building blocks just mentioned or is another key building block for our personal temples.
They include faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, repentance, baptism for the remission of sins, the gift of the Holy Ghost, redemption of the dead and temple work, keeping the Sabbath day holy, beginning with the end in mind, staying on the covenant path.
President Nelson has spoken of them all with love and devotion.The chief cornerstone and building block of the Church and for our lives is Jesus Christ.
This is His Church.
President Nelson is His prophet.
President Nelson’s teachings witness and reveal for our benefit the life and character of Jesus Christ.
He speaks lovingly and knowingly of the Savior’s nature and of His mission.
He has also borne frequent and fervent testimony of the divine calling of the living prophets—the Presidents of the Church—under whom he has served.Now, today, it is our privilege to sustain him as the Lord’s living prophet on the earth.
We are accustomed to sustaining Church leaders through the divine pattern of raising our arms to the square to manifest our acceptance and support.
We did this just a few minutes ago.
But true sustaining goes well beyond this physical token.
As noted in Doctrine and Covenants 107:22, the First Presidency is to be “upheld by the confidence, faith, and prayer of the church.” We come to fully and truly sustain the living prophet as we develop the pattern of confiding in his words, having the faith to act upon them, and then praying for the Lord’s continued blessings upon him.When I think of President Russell M. Nelson, I take comfort in the words of the Savior when He said, “And if my people will hearken unto my voice, and unto the voice of my servants whom I have appointed to lead my people, behold, verily I say unto you, they shall not be moved out of their place” (Doctrine and Covenants 124:45).Listening to and hearkening to living prophets will have profound, even life-changing effects in our lives.
We are strengthened.
We are more assured and confident in the Lord.
We hear the word of the Lord.
We feel God’s love.
We will know how to conduct our lives with purpose.I love and sustain President Russell M. Nelson and the others who have been called as prophets, seers, and revelators.
I testify that he has the gifts the Lord has bestowed upon his head, and I witness that as we solidify in our lives the practice of listening to and heeding the voice of the living prophets, our lives will be built according to the Lord’s divine pattern for us, and we will reap eternal blessings.
The invitation is extended to all.
Come, listen to a prophet’s voice; yea, come unto Christ and live.
In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
Dear brothers and sisters, I want to begin my message today by testifying that I know that President Thomas S. Monson is the prophet of God in our day.
His counselors in the First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles are also, in fact, prophets, seers, and revelators.
They represent the Lord Jesus Christ and have the right to declare His mind and will as it is revealed to them.
I testify that there is safety in following their counsel.
The Lord is inspiring them to emphasize strengthening our faith in Heavenly Father and in His Son, Jesus Christ, and in His Atonement so that we will not waver as we face the challenges of our day.In the Book of Mormon, we read about a man named Ammon who was sent from the land of Zarahemla to the land of Lehi-Nephi to inquire concerning his brethren.
There he found King Limhi and his people, who were in bondage to the Lamanites.
King Limhi was encouraged by the things Ammon shared with him about his people in Zarahemla.
His heart was filled with such great hope and joy that he gathered his people to the temple and said:“Therefore, lift up your heads, and rejoice, and put your trust in God.
…“… If ye will turn to the Lord with full purpose of heart, … and serve him with all diligence of mind, … he will, according to his own will and pleasure, deliver you out of bondage.”1The faith of King Limhi’s people was so profoundly affected by the words of Ammon that they made a covenant with God to serve Him and to keep His commandments, regardless of their difficult circumstances.
Because of their faith, they were able to devise a plan to escape from the hands of the Lamanites.2Brothers and sisters, please consider the importance of the invitation King Limhi gave to his people and its relevance to us.
He said, “Lift up your heads, and rejoice, and put your trust in God.” With these words, Limhi invited his people to look to the future through the eyes of faith; to replace their fears with the optimism of hope born of faith; and to not waver in placing their trust in God regardless of circumstance.Mortal life is a period of testing where we will be proven to see if we will do all things that the Lord our God shall command us.3 This will require unwavering faith in Christ even in times of great difficulty.
It will require that we press forward with steadfast faith in Christ, being led by the Spirit and trusting that God will provide for our needs.4At the conclusion of His earthly ministry, just before being taken prisoner, the Savior taught His disciples, “In the world ye shall have tribulation: but be of good cheer; I have overcome the world.”5Ponder with me for a moment—Jesus Christ, the Only Begotten Son of the Father, lived a sinless life and overcame all the temptations, pains, challenges, and afflictions of the world.
He shed drops of blood in Gethsemane; He suffered terrible pain beyond any power of description.
He took upon Himself all our pains and sicknesses.
He stands ready to help—to help each of us—with every burden.
Through His life, suffering, death, and Resurrection, He removed every impediment to our rejoicing and finding peace on this earth.
The benefits of His atoning sacrifice are extended to all those who accept Him and deny themselves and to those who take up His cross and follow Him as His true disciples.6 Therefore, as we exercise faith in Jesus Christ and in His Atonement, we will be strengthened, our burdens will be eased, and through Him we will overcome the world.Brothers and sisters, as we contemplate the strength and hope that we can receive from the Savior, we do have reason to lift up our heads, rejoice, and press forward in faith without wavering, “for he that wavereth is like a wave of the sea driven with the wind and tossed.
… A double minded man is unstable in all his ways.”7King Limhi likewise urged, “Turn to the Lord with full purpose of heart, … serve him with all diligence of mind, if ye do this, he will, according to his own will and pleasure, deliver you out of bondage.”8Listen to the Savior’s own words as He entreats us:“Let not your heart be troubled: ye believe in God, believe also in me.
…“If ye love me, keep my commandments.
…“He that hath my commandments, and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me: and he that loveth me shall be loved of my Father, and I will love him, and will manifest myself to him.”9God blesses us according to our faith.10 Faith is the source of living with divine purpose and eternal perspective.
Faith is a practical principle that inspires diligence.
It is a vital, living force manifest in our positive attitude and desire to willingly do everything that God and Jesus Christ ask of us.
It takes us to our knees to implore the Lord for guidance and to arise and act with confidence to achieve things consistent with His will.Years ago while serving as a mission president, I received a phone call from the parents of one of our beloved missionaries informing me about the death of his sister.
I remember, in the tenderness of that moment, that missionary and I discussed God’s marvelous plan of salvation for His children and how this knowledge would comfort him.Although he was stunned and saddened by that adversity, this missionary—through his tears and with faith in God—rejoiced in his sister’s life.
He expressed unwavering confidence in the tender mercies of the Lord.
Resolutely, he told me that he would continue to serve his mission with all faith and diligence in order to be worthy of the promises that God had for him and his family.
In this time of need, that faithful missionary turned his heart to God, placed all of his trust in Him, and renewed his commitment to serve the Lord with faith and with all diligence.Brothers and sisters, if we are not rooted by steadfast trust in God and the desire to serve Him, the painful experiences of mortality can lead us to feel as though we are burdened by a heavy yoke; and we can lose the motivation to live the gospel fully.
Without faith, we will end up losing the capacity to appreciate those designs of our God regarding the things that will happen later in our life.11In these moments of trial, the adversary—who is always on the lookout—tries to use our logic and reasoning against us.
He tries to convince us that it is useless to live the principles of the gospel.
Please remember that the logic of the natural man “receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God: for they are foolishness unto him.”12 Remember that Satan “is an enemy [of] God, and [he] fighteth against him continually, and inviteth and enticeth [us] to sin, and to do that which is evil continually.”13 We must not allow him to deceive us; for when we do, we falter in our faith and lose the power to obtain God’s blessings.If we are steadfast and do not waver in our faith, the Lord will increase our capacity to raise ourselves above the challenges of life.
We will be enabled to subdue negative impulses, and we will develop the capacity to overcome even what appear to be overwhelming obstacles.
This was what enabled King Limhi’s people to make a spectacular escape from their Lamanite captivity.Brothers and sisters, I invite you to place all of your trust in God and in the teachings of His prophets.
I invite you to renew your covenants with God, to serve Him with all your heart, regardless of the complex situations of life.
I testify that by the power of your unwavering faith in Christ, you will become free of the captivity of sin, of doubt, of unbelief, of unhappiness, of suffering; and you will receive all of the promised blessings from our loving Heavenly Father.I testify that God is real.
He lives.
He loves us.
He listens to our prayers in our moments of happiness and in our moments of doubt, sadness, and desperation.
I testify that Jesus Christ is the Savior of the world.
He is the Redeemer.I close my remarks today with the lyrics of the hymn “Not Now but in the Coming Years,” found in the Portuguese hymnal:If clouds instead of sun spread shadows o’er our heart,If pain afflicts us, never mind; we will soon know who Thou art.Jesus guides us with His hand, and He will tell us why;If we listen to His voice, He will tell us by and by.Confide in God unwaveringly, and let Him us sustain;Sing His glory endlessly, for later He’ll explain.14I say these things in the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.
As President Russell M. Nelson has just beautifully and eloquently set forth, Church leaders have been working for a long time on “a home-centered and Church-supported plan to learn doctrine, strengthen faith, and foster greater personal worship.” President Nelson then announced an adjustment to achieve “a new balance and connection between gospel instruction in the home and in the Church.”1To accomplish these purposes—described by and under the direction of President Russell M. Nelson and pursuant to the decision of the Council of the First Presidency and Quorum of the Twelve Apostles—the Sunday meeting schedule will be adjusted in the following ways, beginning in January 2019.Sunday Meeting ScheduleThe Sunday Church meetings will consist of a 60-minute sacrament meeting each Sunday, focused on the Savior, the ordinance of the sacrament, and spiritual messages.
After time for transition to classes, Church members will attend a 50-minute class that will alternate each Sunday:Sunday School will be held on the first and third Sundays of the month.Priesthood quorums, Relief Society, and Young Women meetings will be held on the second and fourth Sundays.Meetings on the fifth Sunday will be under the direction of the bishop.Primary will be held each week during this same 50-minute period and will include singing time and classes.With respect to the Sunday meeting schedule, the senior leaders of the Church have been aware for many years that for some of our precious members, a three-hour Sunday schedule at church can be difficult.
This is particularly true for parents with small children, Primary children, elderly members, new converts, and others.2But there is so much more to this adjustment than just shortening the Sunday meetinghouse schedule.
President Nelson has acknowledged with gratitude how much is being accomplished as a result of your faithfulness to previous invitations.
He and the entire leadership of the Church desire to bring greater gospel joy—to parents, children, youth, singles, the elderly, new converts, and those people the missionaries are teaching—through a home-centered, Church-supported, balanced effort.
The purposes and blessings associated with this adjustment and other recent changes include the following:Deepening conversion to Heavenly Father and the Lord Jesus Christ and strengthening faith in Them.Strengthening individuals and families through home-centered, Church-supported curriculum that contributes to joyful gospel living.Honoring the Sabbath day, with a focus on the ordinance of the sacrament.Helping all of Heavenly Father’s children on both sides of the veil through missionary work and receiving ordinances and covenants and blessings of the temple.Home-Centered, Church-Supported Gospel LearningThis Sunday schedule allows more time for a home evening and to study the gospel at home on Sunday or at other times as individuals and families may choose.
A family activity night could be held on Monday or at other times.
To this end, leaders should continue to keep Monday evenings free from Church meetings and activities.
However, time spent in home evening, gospel study, and activities for individuals and families may be scheduled according to their individual circumstances.Family and individual gospel study at home will be significantly enhanced by a harmonized curriculum and a new Come, Follow Me resource for individuals and families that is coordinated with what is being taught in Sunday School and Primary.3 In January, the Church’s youth and adult Sunday School and Primary classes will be studying the New Testament.
The new home-study Come, Follow Me resource for individuals and families—also covering the New Testament—is designed to help members learn the gospel in the home.
It explains: “This resource is for every individual and family in the Church.
It is designed to help [us better] learn the gospel—whether on [our] own or with [our] family.
… The outlines in this [new] resource are organized according to a weekly … schedule.”4The new Primary Come, Follow Me lessons taught in church will follow the same weekly schedule.
The adult and youth Sunday School classes on the first and third Sundays will be coordinated so that they will support the new Come, Follow Me home resource.
On the second and fourth Sundays, adults in priesthood and Relief Society will continue to study the teachings of Church leaders, with emphasis on the current messages of modern prophets.5 Young women and Aaronic Priesthood young men will study gospel topics on those Sundays.The new home-study resource provides “Ideas for Family Scripture Study and Family Home Evening.”6 The outlines for each week contain helpful study ideas and activities for individuals and families.
The Come, Follow Me resource for individuals and families also has many illustrations that will help enhance individual and family learning, especially for children.7 This new resource will be provided to each household by December of this year.President Nelson, from his initial address to the members of the Church in January, has exhorted us to prepare for the Second Coming of Jesus Christ by walking the covenant path.8World conditions increasingly require deepening individual conversion to and strengthening faith in Heavenly Father and Jesus Christ and His Atonement.
The Lord has prepared us, line upon line, for the perilous times that we now face.
In recent years, the Lord has guided us to address related core concerns, including:Honoring the Sabbath day and the sacred ordinance of the sacrament has again been emphasized for the last three years.Under the bishop’s direction, strengthened elders quorums and Relief Societies are focused on the purpose and divinely appointed responsibilities of the Church9 and helping members make and keep sacred covenants.Ministering in a higher and holier way is being joyfully adopted.Beginning with the end in mind, temple covenants and family history service are becoming a purposeful part of the covenant path.The adjustment announced this morning is yet another example of guidance for the challenges of our day.The Church’s traditional curriculum has emphasized the Sunday Church experience.
We know that when we have better teaching and more spiritually prepared class members, we have a better Sunday Church experience.
We are blessed that often the Spirit increases and strengthens conversion in the Church setting.The new home-centered and Church-supported curriculum needs to influence more powerfully family religious observance and behavior and personal religious observance and behavior.
We know the spiritual impact and the deep and lasting conversion that can be achieved in the home setting.
Years ago, a study established that for young men and women the influence of the Holy Ghost most often accompanies individual scripture study and prayer in the home.
Our purpose is to balance the Church and the home experiences in a way that will greatly increase faith and spirituality and deepen conversion to Heavenly Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.In the home-centered, Church-supported portion of this adjustment, there is flexibility for each individual and family to determine prayerfully how and when it will be implemented.
For example, while this will greatly bless all families, based on local needs it would be completely appropriate for young singles, single adults, single parents, part-member families, new members,10 and others to gather in groups outside the normal Sunday worship services to enjoy gospel sociality and be strengthened by studying together the home-centered, Church-supported resource.
This would be accomplished informally by those who so desire.In many parts of the world, people choose to stay at the meetinghouse after the normal Sunday schedule to enjoy social relationships.
There is nothing in this announced adjustment that would interfere with this wonderful and rewarding practice in any way.To help members prepare for the Sabbath, some wards already send an informative email, text, or social media message midweek.
In view of this adjustment, we strongly recommend this type of communication.
These invitations will remind the members of the Sunday meeting schedule for that week, including the upcoming class lesson topic, and support continuing gospel conversation at home.
In addition, the adult meetings on Sunday will also provide information to connect church and home study each week.The sacrament meeting and the class period will require prayerful consideration to make sure that spiritual priorities are emphasized over administrative functions.
For example, announcements can for the most part be accomplished in the midweek invitation or on a printed program.
While the sacrament meeting should have an opening and closing prayer, the second meeting need only have a closing prayer.11As was mentioned earlier, the new Sunday schedule will not commence until January 2019.
There are several reasons for this.
The two most important are, first, to have time to distribute the Come, Follow Me resource for individuals and families and, second, to allow time for stake presidents and bishops to arrange meeting schedules, with the goal of having more wards meet earlier in the day.As leaders have sought revelation, the guidance received over the past few years is to strengthen the sacrament meeting, honor the Sabbath day, and encourage and assist parents and individuals to make their homes a source of spiritual strength and increased faith—a place of joy and happiness.Extraordinary BlessingsWhat do these adjustments mean for members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints?
We are confident that members will be blessed in extraordinary ways.
Sunday can be a day of gospel learning and teaching at church and in the home.
As individuals and families engage in family councils, family history, ministering, service, personal worship, and joyful family time, the Sabbath day will truly be a delight.One family from Brazil are members of a stake where the new home Come, Follow Me resource was tested.
The father, Fernando, a returned missionary who, with his wife, Nancy, are the parents of four young children, reported: “When the Come, Follow Me program was introduced in our stake, I was so excited, and I thought ‘the way that we study the scriptures at home is going to change.’ It really happened in my home, and as a Church leader I saw that it happened in other homes.
… It helped us to really discuss the scriptures in our home.
My wife and I had a deeper understanding about the topic studied.
… It helped us … amplify our gospel knowledge and enhance our faith and testimony.
… I bear my testimony … that I know it was inspired by the Lord so that the consistent and effective study of the principles and doctrines contained in the scriptures brings more faith, testimony, and light to the families … in an increasingly fallen world.”12In pilot test stakes across the world, there was a highly favorable response to the new Come, Follow Me home resource.
Many reported that they progressed from reading scriptures to actually studying the scriptures.
It was also commonly felt the experience was faith promoting and had a wonderful impact on the ward.13Deep and Lasting ConversionThe goal of these adjustments is to obtain a deep and lasting conversion of adults and the rising generation.
The first page of the individual and family resource points out: “The aim of all gospel learning and teaching is to deepen our conversion and help us become more like Jesus Christ.
… This means relying on Christ to change our hearts.”14 This is assisted by reaching “beyond a classroom into an individual’s heart and home.
It requires consistent, daily efforts to understand and live the gospel.
True conversion requires the influence of the Holy Ghost.”15The most important goal and ultimate blessing of deep and lasting conversion is worthily receiving the covenants and ordinances of the covenant pathway.16We trust you to counsel together and to seek revelation for implementing these adjustments—while not looking beyond the mark or trying to regiment individuals or families.
Additional information will be shared in upcoming communications, including a First Presidency letter and enclosure.I testify to you that in the deliberations of the Council of the First Presidency and the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles in the temple, and after our beloved prophet petitioned the Lord for revelation to move forward with these adjustments, a powerful confirmation was received by all.
Russell M. Nelson is our living President and prophet.
The announcements made today will result in profound blessings for those who enthusiastically embrace the adjustments and seek the guidance of the Holy Ghost.
We will become closer to our Heavenly Father and our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, of whom I am a sure witness.
In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
In His mortal ministry, Jesus worked such mighty miracles of healing and taught with such authority and power that the scripture says, “His fame went throughout all Syria … and there followed him great multitudes of people.”1Some who saw Him heal and heard Him teach rejected Him.
Others followed Him for a season but then walked with Him no more.2 The Lord Jesus Christ was there in front of them, but they did not see who He really was.
They were blind, and they chose to turn away.
Of them, Jesus said:“I came unto my own, and my own received me not.”3“Their ears are dull of hearing, and their eyes have they closed.”4However, there were many men and women, including His faithful Apostles, who centered their lives on Him.
Though they struggled with worldly distractions, with confusion about what He taught, and even with fear, they believed in Him, loved Him, and followed Him.Of them, Jesus said, “Blessed are your eyes, for they see: and your ears, for they hear.”5Just before His suffering in Gethsemane and on Calvary, Jesus made His disciples this remarkable promise: “He that believeth on me, the works that I do shall he do also; and greater works than these shall he do; because I go unto my Father.”6Jesus fulfilled that promise: beginning with the day of Pentecost, the disciples were blessed with the baptism of fire and of the Holy Ghost.7 Through their faith in Christ, repentance, and obedience, the Holy Ghost became their companion, changed their hearts, and blessed them with an abiding witness of the truth.These gifts and blessings strengthened the Lord’s disciples.
Although the times they lived in were dangerous and confusing, they received the spiritual gift of eyes to see and ears to hear.
By the power of the Holy Ghost, they began to see the truth of things as they really are, especially of the Lord Jesus Christ and His work among them.8 The Holy Ghost enlightened their understanding, and they heard the voice of the Lord more clearly.
The gospel of Jesus Christ sank deep into their hearts.9 They were steadfast and obedient.10 They preached the gospel with boldness and power and built up the kingdom of God.11 They had joy in the Lord Jesus Christ.We have much in common with those faithful men and women in the meridian of time.
We too live in a time when the Lord Jesus Christ works miracles among us—including healing the sick, cleansing us from sin, changing our hearts, and opening salvation to God’s children on both sides of the veil.
In our time we also have living prophets and apostles, priesthood power, spiritual gifts, and the supernal blessings of the ordinances of salvation.Our time is a dangerous time—a time of great evil and temptation, a time of confusion and commotion.
In these perilous times, the Lord’s prophet on the earth, President Thomas S. Monson, has called us to rescue the wounded in spirit,12 to stand for truth with courage,13 and to build the kingdom of God.14 Whatever level of spirituality or faith or obedience we now have, it will not be sufficient for the work that lies ahead.
We need greater spiritual light and power.
We need eyes to see more clearly the Savior working in our lives and ears to hear His voice more deeply in our hearts.This marvelous blessing comes when we open our hearts and receive,15 truly receive, the Lord Jesus Christ, His doctrine, and His Church into our lives.
We do not have to be perfect, but we need to be good and getting better.
We need to strive to live the plain and simple truths of the gospel.
If we take upon us the name of Christ, act with faith in Him to repent of our sins, keep His commandments, and always remember Him, we will receive the companionship of the Holy Ghost through the mercy and grace of Jesus Christ.Simple obedience brings the Spirit into our hearts.
In our homes, we pray in faith, search the scriptures, and keep the Sabbath day holy.
In our chapels, we partake of the sacrament and make sacred promises to our Heavenly Father in the name of Christ.
In holy temples, we participate in sacred ordinances on behalf of our brothers and sisters on the other side of the veil.
In our families and in our assignments from the Lord, we reach out to others, lifting their burdens and inviting them to come unto Christ.Brothers and sisters, I know that if we will do these things, the Holy Ghost will come!
We will grow spiritually and gain experience with the Holy Ghost, and He will be our companion.
If we will look to Christ and open our eyes and our ears, the Holy Ghost will bless us to see the Lord Jesus Christ working in our lives, strengthening our faith in Him with assurance and evidence.
We increasingly will see all of our brothers and sisters the way God sees them, with love and compassion.
We will hear the Savior’s voice in the scriptures, in the whisperings of the Spirit, and in the words of the living prophets.16 We will see the power of God resting upon His prophet and all the leaders of His true and living Church, and we will know with a surety that this is God’s holy work.17 We will see and understand ourselves and the world around us the way the Savior does.
We will come to have what the Apostle Paul called “the mind of Christ.”18 We will have eyes to see and ears to hear, and we will build the kingdom of God.Life may get hard, confusing, painful, and discouraging.
I bear you my witness that through the companionship of the Holy Ghost, the light of the gospel of Jesus Christ will cut through the confusion, the pain, and the darkness.
Whether it comes in a remarkable burst or in a gentle flow, that glorious spiritual power will infuse healing love and comfort into the repentant, wounded soul; dispel darkness with the light of truth; and cast out discouragement with hope in Christ.
We will see these blessings come, and we will know by the witness of the Spirit that it is the Lord Jesus Christ working in our lives.
Our burdens truly will be “swallowed up in the joy of [our Redeemer].”19An experience my mother and father had many years ago illustrates the importance and power of eyes to see and ears to hear.
In 1982 my parents were called to serve in the Philippines Davao Mission.
When my mother opened the letter and saw where they were called, she exclaimed to my father, “No!
You’ve got to call them and tell them we can’t go to the Philippines.
They know you have asthma.” My father had suffered with asthma for many years, and my mother was very worried about him.A few nights later my mother woke up my dad at about 2:30 a.m. She said, “Merlin, did you hear that voice?”“No, I didn’t hear any voice.”“Well, I have heard the same voice three times tonight, saying, ‘Why are you worried?
Don’t you know that I know he has asthma?
I will take care of him, and I will take care of you.
Get yourself ready to serve in the Philippines.’”My mother and father served in the Philippines and had a marvelous experience.
The Holy Ghost was their companion, and they were blessed and protected.
My father never had any problems with his asthma.
He served as the first counselor in the mission presidency, and he and my mother trained hundreds of missionaries and thousands of faithful Latter-day Saints in preparation for the coming of wards and stakes on the island of Mindanao.
They were blessed with eyes to see and ears to hear.Brothers and sisters, I bear witness of Jesus Christ.
I know He lives.
He is our Savior and Redeemer.
I know that if we receive Him into our lives and live the plain and simple truths of His gospel, we will enjoy the companionship of the Holy Ghost.
We will have the precious gift of eyes to see and ears to hear.
I so testify in the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.
Family relationships can be some of the most rewarding yet challenging experiences we encounter.
Many of us have faced a fracture of some sort within our families.
Such a fracture developed between two heroes of the Restoration of the Church of Jesus Christ in these latter days.
Parley and Orson Pratt were brothers, early converts, and ordained Apostles.
Each faced a trial of faith but came through with an unshakable testimony.
Both sacrificed and contributed greatly for the cause of truth.During the Nauvoo era, their relationship became strained, culminating in a heated, public confrontation in 1846.
A deep and prolonged rift developed.
Parley initially wrote to Orson to resolve the rift, but Orson did not reply.
Parley gave up, feeling that correspondence was over forever, unless initiated by Orson.1Several years later, in March 1853, Orson learned about a project to publish a book on the descendants of William Pratt, the brothers’ earliest American ancestor.
Orson began to weep “like a little child” as he glimpsed this treasure trove of family history.
His heart melted, and he determined to repair the breach with his brother.Orson wrote to Parley, “Now my dear brother, there are none among all the descendants of our Ancestor, Lieut[enant] William Pratt, who have so deep an interest in searching out his descendants as ourselves.” Orson was one of the first to understand that Latter-day Saints have an obligation to research and compile family histories so that we can perform vicarious ordinances for our ancestors.
His letter continued: “We know that the God of our fathers has had a hand in all this.
… I will beg pardon for having been so backward in writing to you.
… I hope you will forgive me.”2 Despite their unshakable testimonies, their love for their ancestors was the catalyst to heal a rift, mend a hurt, and seek and extend forgiveness.3When God directs us to do one thing, He often has many purposes in mind.
Family history and temple work is not only for the dead but blesses the living as well.
For Orson and Parley, it turned their hearts to each other.
Family history and temple work provided the power to heal that which needed healing.As Church members, we do have a divinely appointed responsibility to seek out our ancestors and compile family histories.
This is far more than an encouraged hobby, because the ordinances of salvation are necessary for all of God’s children.4 We are to identify our own ancestors who died without receiving the ordinances of salvation.
We can perform the ordinances vicariously in temples, and our ancestors may choose to accept the ordinances.5 We are also encouraged to help ward and stake members with their family names.
It is breathtakingly amazing that, through family history and temple work, we can help to redeem the dead.But as we participate in family history and temple work today, we also lay claim to “healing” blessings promised by prophets and apostles.6 These blessings are also breathtakingly amazing because of their scope, specificity, and consequence in mortality.
This long list includes these blessings:Increased understanding of the Savior and His atoning sacrifice;Increased influence of the Holy Ghost7 to feel strength and direction for our own lives;Increased faith, so that conversion to the Savior becomes deep and abiding;Increased ability and motivation to learn and repent8 because of an understanding of who we are, where we come from, and a clearer vision of where we are going;Increased refining, sanctifying, and moderating influences in our hearts;Increased joy through an increased ability to feel the love of the Lord;Increased family blessings, no matter our current, past, or future family situation or how imperfect our family tree may be;Increased love and appreciation for ancestors and living relatives, so we no longer feel alone;Increased power to discern that which needs healing and thus, with the Lord’s help, serve others;Increased protection from temptations and the intensifying influence of the adversary; andIncreased assistance to mend troubled, broken, or anxious hearts and make the wounded whole.9If you have prayed for any of these blessings, participate in family history and temple work.
As you do so, your prayers will be answered.
When ordinances are performed on behalf of the deceased, God’s children on earth are healed.
No wonder President Russell M. Nelson, in his first message as President of the Church, declared, “Your worship in the temple and your service there for your ancestors will bless you with increased personal revelation and peace and will fortify your commitment to stay on the covenant path.”10An earlier prophet also foresaw blessings for both the living and the dead.11 A heavenly messenger showed Ezekiel a vision of a temple with water gushing out of it.
Ezekiel was told:“These waters issue out … and go down into the desert, and go into the [dead] sea … , [and] the waters shall be healed.“And it shall come to pass, that every thing that liveth, which moveth, whithersoever the rivers shall come, shall live: … for they shall be healed; and every thing shall live whither the river cometh.”12Two characteristics of the water are noteworthy.
First, though the small stream had no tributaries, it grew into a mighty river, becoming wider and deeper the farther it flowed.
Something similar happens with the blessings that flow from the temple as individuals are sealed as families.
Meaningful growth occurs going backward and forward through the generations as sealing ordinances weld families together.Second, the river renewed everything that it touched.
The blessings of the temple likewise have a stunning capacity to heal.
Temple blessings can heal hearts and lives and families.Let me illustrate.
In 1999 a young man named Todd collapsed from a ruptured blood vessel in his brain.
Although Todd and his family were members of the Church, their activity had been sporadic, and none had experienced the blessings of the temple.
On the last night of Todd’s life, his mother, Betty, sat at his bedside stroking his hand and said, “Todd, if you really do have to go, I promise I’ll see to it that your temple work gets done.” The next morning, Todd was declared brain dead.
Surgeons transplanted Todd’s heart into my patient, a remarkable individual named Rod.A few months after the transplant, Rod learned the identity of his heart donor’s family and began to correspond with them.
About two years later, Todd’s mother, Betty, invited Rod to be present when she went to the temple for the first time.
Rod and Betty first met in person in the celestial room of the St. George Utah Temple.Sometime thereafter, Todd’s father—Betty’s husband—died.
A couple of years later, Betty invited Rod to vicariously represent her deceased son in receiving his temple ordinances.
Rod gratefully did so, and the proxy work culminated in a sealing room in the St. George Utah Temple.
Betty was sealed to her deceased husband, kneeling across the altar from her grandson who served as proxy.
Then, with tears streaming down her cheeks, she beckoned for Rod to join them at the altar.
Rod knelt beside them, acting as proxy for her son, Todd, whose heart was still beating inside Rod’s chest.
Rod’s heart donor, Todd, was then sealed to his parents for all eternity.
Todd’s mother had kept the promise she made to her dying son years before.But the story does not end there.
Fifteen years after his heart transplant, Rod became engaged to be married and asked me to perform the sealing in the Provo Utah Temple.
On the wedding day, I met with Rod and his marvelous bride, Kim, in a room adjacent to the sealing room, where their families and closest friends were waiting.
After briefly visiting with Rod and Kim, I asked if they had any questions.Rod said, “Yes.
My donor family is here and would love to meet you.”I was caught off guard and asked, “You mean they’re here?
Right now?”Rod replied, “Yes.”I stepped around the corner and called the family out of the sealing room.
Betty, her daughter, and her son-in-law joined us.
Rod greeted Betty with a hug, thanked her for coming, and then introduced me to her.
Rod said, “Betty, this is Elder Renlund.
He was the doctor who took care of your son’s heart for so many years.” She crossed the room and embraced me.
And for the next several minutes, there were hugs and tears of joy all around.After we regained our composure, we moved into the sealing room, where Rod and Kim were sealed for time and all eternity.
Rod, Kim, Betty, and I can testify that heaven was very close, that there were others with us that day who had previously passed through the veil of mortality.God, in His infinite capacity, seals and heals individuals and families despite tragedy, loss, and hardship.
We sometimes compare the feelings we experience in temples as having caught a glimpse of heaven.13 That day in the Provo Utah Temple, this statement by C. S. Lewis resonated with me: “[Mortals] say of some temporal suffering, ‘No future bliss can make up for it,’ not knowing that Heaven, once attained, will work backwards and turn even that agony into a glory.
… The Blessed will say, ‘We have never lived anywhere except in Heaven.’”14God will strengthen, help, and uphold us;15 and He will sanctify to us our deepest distress.16 When we gather our family histories and go to the temple on behalf of our ancestors, God fulfills many of these promised blessings simultaneously on both sides of the veil.
Similarly, we are blessed when we help others in our wards and stakes do the same.
Members who do not live close to a temple also receive these blessings by participating in family history work, collecting the names of their ancestors for temple ordinances to be performed.President Russell M. Nelson, however, cautioned: “We can be inspired all day long about temple and family history experiences others have had.
But we must do something to actually experience the joy ourselves.” He continued, “I invite you to prayerfully consider what kind of sacrifice—preferably a sacrifice of time—you can make [to] do more temple and family history work.”17 As you accept President Nelson’s invitation, you will discover, gather, and connect your family.
Additionally, blessings will flow to you and your family like the river spoken of by Ezekiel.
You will find healing for that which needs healing.Orson and Parley Pratt experienced the healing and sealing effects of family history and temple work early in this dispensation.
Betty, her family, and Rod experienced it.
You can too.
Through His atoning sacrifice, Jesus Christ offers these blessings to all, both the dead and the living.
Because of these blessings, we will find that we, metaphorically, “have never lived anywhere except … Heaven.”18 I so testify in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
I speak today of fathers.
Fathers are fundamental in the divine plan of happiness, and I want to raise a voice of encouragement for those who are striving to fill well that calling.
To praise and encourage fatherhood and fathers is not to shame or discount anyone.
I simply focus today on the good that men can do in the highest of masculine roles—husband and father.David Blankenhorn, the author of Fatherless America, has observed: “Today, American society is fundamentally divided and ambivalent about the fatherhood idea.
Some people do not even remember it.
Others are offended by it.
Others, including more than a few family scholars, neglect it or disdain it.
Many others are not especially opposed to it, nor are they especially committed to it.
Many people wish we could act on it, but believe that our society simply no longer can or will.”1As a Church, we believe in fathers.
We believe in “the ideal of the man who puts his family first.”2 We believe that “by divine design, fathers are to preside over their families in love and righteousness and are responsible to provide the necessities of life and protection for their families.”3 We believe that in their complementary family duties, “fathers and mothers are obligated to help one another as equal partners.”4 We believe that far from being superfluous, fathers are unique and irreplaceable.Some see the good of fatherhood in social terms, as something that obligates men to their offspring, impelling them to be good citizens and to think about the needs of others, supplementing “maternal investment in children with paternal investment in children.
… In short, the key for men is to be fathers.
The key for children is to have fathers.
The key for society is to create fathers.”5 While these considerations are certainly true and important, we know that fatherhood is much more than a social construct or the product of evolution.
The role of father is of divine origin, beginning with a Father in Heaven and, in this mortal sphere, with Father Adam.The perfect, divine expression of fatherhood is our Heavenly Father.
His character and attributes include abundant goodness and perfect love.
His work and glory are the development, happiness, and eternal life of His children.6 Fathers in this fallen world can claim nothing comparable to the Majesty on High, but at their best, they are striving to emulate Him, and they indeed labor in His work.
They are honored with a remarkable and sobering trust.For men, fatherhood exposes us to our own weaknesses and our need to improve.
Fatherhood requires sacrifice, but it is a source of incomparable satisfaction, even joy.
Again, the ultimate model is our Heavenly Father, who so loved us, His spirit children, that He gave us His Only Begotten Son for our salvation and exaltation.7 Jesus said, “Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends.”8 Fathers manifest that love as they lay down their lives day by day, laboring in the service and support of their families.Perhaps the most essential of a father’s work is to turn the hearts of his children to their Heavenly Father.
If by his example as well as his words a father can demonstrate what fidelity to God looks like in day-to-day living, that father will have given his children the key to peace in this life and eternal life in the world to come.9 A father who reads scripture to and with his children acquaints them with the voice of the Lord.10We find in the scriptures a repeated emphasis on the parental obligation to teach one’s children:“And again, inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands, when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents.
…“And they shall also teach their children to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord.”11In 1833, the Lord reprimanded members of the First Presidency for inadequate attention to the duty of teaching their children.
To one He said specifically, “You have not taught your children light and truth, according to the commandments; and that wicked one hath power, as yet, over you, and this is the cause of your affliction.”12Fathers are to teach God’s law and works anew to each generation.
As the Psalmist declared:“For he established a testimony in Jacob, and appointed a law in Israel, which he commanded our fathers, that they should make them known to their children:“That the generation to come might know them, even the children which should be born; who should [then] arise and declare them to their children:“That they might set their hope in God, and not forget the works of God, but keep his commandments.”13Certainly teaching the gospel is a shared duty between fathers and mothers, but the Lord is clear that He expects fathers to lead out in making it a high priority.
(And let’s remember that informal conversations, working and playing together, and listening are important elements of teaching.)
The Lord expects fathers to help shape their children, and children want and need a model.I myself was blessed with an exemplary father.
I recall that when I was a boy of about 12, my father became a candidate for the city council in our rather small community.
He did not mount an extensive election campaign—all I remember was that Dad had my brothers and me distribute copies of a flyer door to door, urging people to vote for Paul Christofferson.
There were a number of adults that I handed a flyer to who remarked that Paul was a good and honest man and that they would have no problem voting for him.
My young boy heart swelled with pride in my father.
It gave me confidence and a desire to follow in his footsteps.
He was not perfect—no one is—but he was upright and good and an aspirational example for a son.Discipline and correction are part of teaching.
As Paul said, “For whom the Lord loveth he chasteneth.”14 But in discipline a father must exercise particular care, lest there be anything even approaching abuse, which is never justified.
When a father provides correction, his motivation must be love and his guide the Holy Spirit:“Reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost; and then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy;“That he may know that thy faithfulness is stronger than the cords of death.”15Discipline in the divine pattern is not so much about punishing as it is about helping a loved one along the path of self-mastery.The Lord has said that “all children have claim upon their parents for their maintenance until they are of age.”16 Breadwinning is a consecrated activity.
Providing for one’s family, although it generally requires time away from the family, is not inconsistent with fatherhood—it is the essence of being a good father.
“Work and family are overlapping domains.”17 This, of course, does not justify a man who neglects his family for his career or, at the other extreme, one who will not exert himself and is content to shift his responsibility to others.
In the words of King Benjamin:“Ye will not suffer your children that they go hungry, or naked; neither will ye suffer that they transgress the laws of God, and fight and quarrel one with another.
…“But ye will teach them to walk in the ways of truth and soberness; ye will teach them to love one another, and to serve one another.”18We recognize the agony of men who are unable to find ways and means adequately to sustain their families.
There is no shame for those who, at a given moment, despite their best efforts, cannot fulfill all the duties and functions of fathers.
“Disability, death, or other circumstances may necessitate individual adaptation.
Extended families should lend support when needed.”19Loving the mother of his children—and showing that love—are two of the best things a father can do for his children.
This reaffirms and strengthens the marriage that is the foundation of their family life and security.Some men are single fathers, foster fathers, or stepfathers.
Many of them strive mightily and do their very best in an often difficult role.
We honor those who do all that can be done in love, patience, and self-sacrifice to meet individual and family needs.
It should be noted that God Himself entrusted His Only Begotten Son to a foster father.
Surely some of the credit goes to Joseph for the fact that as Jesus grew, He “increased in wisdom and stature, and in favour with God and man.”20Regrettably, due to death, abandonment, or divorce, some children don’t have fathers living with them.
Some may have fathers who are physically present but emotionally absent or in other ways inattentive or nonsupportive.
We call on all fathers to do better and to be better.
We call on media and entertainment outlets to portray devoted and capable fathers who truly love their wives and intelligently guide their children, instead of the bumblers and buffoons or “the guys who cause problems,” as fathers are all too frequently depicted.To children whose family situation is troubled, we say, you yourself are no less for that.
Challenges are at times an indication of the Lord’s trust in you.
He can help you, directly and through others, to deal with what you face.
You can become the generation, perhaps the first in your family, where the divine patterns that God has ordained for families truly take shape and bless all the generations after you.To young men, recognizing the role you will have as provider and protector, we say, prepare now by being diligent in school and planning for postsecondary training.
Education, whether in a university, technical school, apprenticeship, or similar program, is key to developing the skills and capabilities you will need.
Take advantage of opportunities to associate with people of all ages, including children, and learn how to establish healthy and rewarding relationships.
That typically means talking face to face with people and sometimes doing things together, not just perfecting your texting skills.
Live your life so that as a man you will bring purity to your marriage and to your children.To all the rising generation, we say, wherever you rank your own father on the scale of good-better-best (and I predict that ranking will go higher as you grow older and wiser), make up your mind to honor him and your mother by your own life.
Remember the yearning hope of a father as expressed by John: “I have no greater joy than to hear that my children walk in truth.”21 Your righteousness is the greatest honor any father can receive.To my brethren, the fathers in this Church, I say, I know you wish you were a more perfect father.
I know I wish I were.
Even so, despite our limitations, let us press on.
Let us lay aside the exaggerated notions of individualism and autonomy in today’s culture and think first of the happiness and well-being of others.
Surely, despite our inadequacies, our Heavenly Father will magnify us and cause our simple efforts to bear fruit.
I am encouraged by a story that appeared in the New Era some years ago.
The author recounted the following:“When I was young, our little family lived in a one-bedroom apartment on the second floor.
I slept on the couch in the living room.
…“My dad, a steelworker, left home very early for work each day.
Every morning he would … tuck the covers around me and stop for a minute.
I would be half-dreaming when I could sense my dad standing beside the couch, looking at me.
As I slowly awoke, I became embarrassed to have him there.
I tried to pretend I was still asleep.
… I became aware that as he stood beside my bed he was praying with all his attention, energy, and focus—for me.“Each morning my dad prayed for me.
He prayed that I would have a good day, that I would be safe, that I would learn and prepare for the future.
And since he could not be with me until evening, he prayed for the teachers and my friends that I would be with that day.
…“At first, I didn’t really understand what my dad was doing those mornings when he prayed for me.
But as I got older, I came to sense his love and interest in me and everything I was doing.
It is one of my favorite memories.
It wasn’t until years later, after I was married, had children of my own, and would go into their rooms while they were asleep and pray for them that I understood completely how my father felt about me.”22Alma testified to his son:“Behold, I say unto you, that it is [Christ] that surely shall come … ; yea he cometh to declare glad tidings of salvation unto his people.“And now, my son, this was the ministry unto which ye were called, to declare these glad tidings unto this people, to prepare their minds; or rather … that they may prepare the minds of their children to hear the word at the time of his coming.”23That is the ministry of fathers today.
God bless and make them equal to it, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
On this historic night, I express my love and appreciation to each of you, my dear sisters.
Whatever our age, location, or circumstance, we gather tonight in unity, in strength, in purpose, and in testimony that we are loved and led by our Heavenly Father; our Savior, Jesus Christ; and our living prophet, President Russell M. Nelson.As a young couple, my husband and I were called by our bishop to visit and minister to a family who hadn’t been to church in many years.
We willingly accepted the assignment and went to their home a few days later.
It was immediately clear to us that they did not want visitors from the Church.So on our next visit, we approached them with a plate of cookies, confident that chocolate chips would melt their hearts.
They didn’t.
The couple spoke to us through the screen door, making it even clearer that we weren’t welcome.
But as we drove home, we were fairly certain success might have been achieved had we only offered them Rice Krispies Treats instead.Our lack of spiritual vision made additional failed attempts frustrating.
Rejection is never comfortable.
Over time we began to ask ourselves, “Why are we doing this?
What is our purpose?”Elder Carl B. Cook made this observation: “Serving in the Church … can be challenging if we are asked to do something that frightens us, if we grow weary of serving, or if we are called to do something that we do not initially find appealing.”1 We were experiencing the truth of Elder Cook’s words when we decided we had to seek direction from Someone with a greater perspective than our own.So, after much sincere prayer and study, we received the answer to the why of our service.
We had a change in our understanding, a change of heart, actually a revelatory experience.2 As we sought direction from the scriptures, the Lord taught us how to make the process of serving others easier and more meaningful.
Here is the verse we read that changed both our hearts and our approach: “Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy might, mind, and strength; and in the name of Jesus Christ thou shalt serve him.”3 Though this verse was so familiar, it seemed to speak to us in a new and important way.We realized that we were sincerely striving to serve this family and to serve our bishop, but we had to ask ourselves if we were really serving out of love for the Lord.
King Benjamin made clear this distinction when he stated, “Behold, I say unto you that because I said unto you that I had spent my days in your service, I do not desire to boast, for I have only been in the service of God.”4So whom was King Benjamin really serving?
Heavenly Father and the Savior.
Knowing the who and the why in serving others helps us understand that the highest manifestation of love is devotion to God.As our focus gradually changed, so did our prayers.
We began looking forward to our visits with this dear family because of our love for the Lord.5 We were doing it for Him.
He made the struggle no longer a struggle.
After many months of our standing on the doorstep, the family began letting us in.
Eventually, we had regular prayer and tender gospel discussions together.
A long-lasting friendship developed.
We were worshipping and loving Him by loving His children.Can you think back on a time when you lovingly reached out with sincere effort to help someone in need and felt that your efforts went unnoticed or perhaps were unappreciated or even unwanted?
In that moment, did you question the value of your service?
If so, may the words of King Benjamin replace your doubt and even your hurt: “Ye are only in the service of your God.”6Rather than building resentment, we can build, through service, a more perfect relationship with our Heavenly Father.
Our love for and devotion to Him preempts the need for recognition or appreciation and allows His love to flow to and through us.Sometimes we may initially serve from a sense of duty or obligation, but even that service can lead us to draw on something higher within us, leading us to serve in “a more excellent way”7—as in President Nelson’s invitation to “a newer, holier approach to caring for and ministering to others.”8When we focus on all that God has done for us, our service flows from a heart of gratitude.
As we become less concerned about our service magnifying us, we realize instead that the focus of our service will be on putting God first.9President M. Russell Ballard taught, “It is only when we love God and Christ with all of our hearts, souls, and minds that we are able to share this love with our neighbors through acts of kindness and service.”10The first of the Ten Commandments reiterates this divine wisdom: “I am the Lord thy God.
… Thou shalt have no other gods before me.”11 The placement of this commandment helps us understand that if we place Him as our main priority, everything else will ultimately fall into place—even our service to others.
When He takes the preeminent position in our lives by our deliberate choice, then He is able to bless our actions to our good and to the good of others.The Lord counseled, “Look unto me in every thought.”12 And each week we covenant to do just that—to “always remember him.”13 Can such a godly focus apply in everything we do?
Can performing even a menial task become an opportunity to demonstrate our love and devotion to Him?
I believe it can and will.We can make each item on our to-do list become a way to glorify Him.
We can see each task as a privilege and opportunity to serve Him, even when we are in the midst of deadlines, duties, or dirty diapers.As Ammon said, “Yea, I know that I am nothing; as to my strength I am weak; therefore I will not boast of myself, but I will boast of my God, for in his strength I can do all things.”14When serving our God becomes our main priority in life, we lose ourselves, and in due course, we find ourselves.15The Savior taught this principle so simply and directly: “Therefore let your light so shine before this people, that they may see your good works and glorify your Father who is in heaven.”16May I share with you some words of wisdom that were found on the wall of an orphanage in Calcutta, India: “If you are kind, people may accuse you of selfish, ulterior motives.
Be kind anyway.
What you spend years building, someone could destroy overnight.
Build anyway.
The good you do today, people will often forget tomorrow.
Do good anyway.
Give the world the best you have, and it may never be enough.
Give the world the best you’ve got anyway.
You see, in the final analysis, it is between you and your God … anyway.”17Sisters, it is always between us and the Lord.
As President James E. Faust said: “‘What is the greatest need in the world?’ … ‘Is not the greatest need in all of the world for every person to have a personal, ongoing, daily, continuing relationship with the Savior?’ Having such a relationship can unchain the divinity within us, and nothing can make a greater difference in our lives as we come to know and understand our divine relationship with God.”18Similarly, Alma explained to his son, “Yea, let all thy doings be unto the Lord, and whithersoever thou goest let it be in the Lord; yea, let all thy thoughts be directed unto the Lord; yea, let the affections of thy heart be placed upon the Lord forever.”19And President Russell M. Nelson has likewise taught us, “When we comprehend His voluntary Atonement, any sense of sacrifice on our part becomes completely overshadowed by a profound sense of gratitude for the privilege of serving Him.”20Sisters, I testify that when Jesus Christ, through the power of His Atonement, works on us and in us, He begins to work through us to bless others.
We serve them, but we do so by loving and serving Him.
We become what the scripture describes: “Every man [and woman] seeking the interest of his [or her] neighbor, and doing all things with an eye single to the glory of God.”21Maybe our bishop knew that was the lesson my husband and I would learn from those early and well-intentioned, yet not perfect, efforts to minister to God’s beloved sons and daughters.
I bear my personal and sure witness of the goodness and love He shares with us even as we strive to serve for Him.
In the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.
When I was a young boy, my parents received a gift that became fascinating to my younger brother David and me.
The gift was a miniature model of the golden plates the Prophet Joseph Smith received from the angel Moroni.
As I recall, the model plates had 10 or so metal pages with words written on them.
However, those pages weren’t what caught our attention.We had been raised hearing the stories of the Restoration.
We knew of and had sung in Primary about golden plates hidden deep in a mountainside and delivered by the angel Moroni to Joseph Smith.1 As the curiosity of our young minds stirred, there was one thing we really wanted to see: what was written on the small section of the model plates securely sealed with two small metal bands?The plates sat on an end table for several days before our curiosity got the best of us.
Although we clearly understood that these were not the actual plates Moroni had delivered, we wanted to view the sealed portion.
So on several occasions, my brother and I tried using butter knives, old spoons, and anything else we could imagine to pry apart the sealed portion of the plates just enough to see what they contained—but not enough to break the small bands.
We were at least smart enough not to leave a trace of our mischievous boyhood curiosity.
To our disappointment and frustration, these attempts to “pry at the plates” were always unsuccessful.I still don’t know what—if anything—was hidden under that sealed portion.
But the embarrassing part of our story is that to this day, I have no idea what was written on the portion of the metal pages that was meant to be read.
I can only imagine that these pages contained stories of the Restoration and testimonies of Joseph Smith and the Three and Eight Witnesses, who saw the actual plates Moroni delivered.Since the Creation of this earth, our loving Father in Heaven has provided direction, leadership, and instruction to His children through prophets.
His words have been passed down through these prophets and are saved as scripture for our development and learning.
Nephi described it this way:“For my soul delighteth in the scriptures, and my heart pondereth them, and writeth them for the learning and the profit of my children.“Behold, my soul delighteth in the things of the Lord; and my heart pondereth continually upon the things which I have seen and heard.”2In addition, during past dispensations and in this last dispensation of the fulness of times, worthy members of the Lord’s Church have been blessed with the constant companionship of the Holy Ghost, who aids in our spiritual development and learning.Knowing the diligent nature of my younger brother, I imagine it very likely that he read all the words written on the model plates in our parents’ home.
I, however, ignored those plain and precious truths and instead exerted my effort searching for those things that were not meant to be revealed.Sadly, our development and learning can at times be slowed or even halted by an ill-conceived desire to “pry at the plates.” These actions can lead us to seek after things that are not necessarily meant to be understood at this time, all the while ignoring the beautiful truths that are meant for us and our circumstances—the truths that Nephi described as written for our learning and profit.Nephi’s brother Jacob taught: “Behold, great and marvelous are the works of the Lord.
How unsearchable are the depths of the mysteries of him; and it is impossible that man should find out all his ways.”3Jacob’s words teach us that we cannot successfully “pry at the plates” or force the mysteries of God to be revealed unto us.
Instead, the mysteries of God are unfolded unto us only according to His will and by the power of the Holy Ghost.4Jacob continues:“And no man knoweth of his ways save it be revealed unto him; wherefore, brethren, despise not the revelations of God.“For behold, by the power of his word man came upon the face of the earth.
… O then, why not able to command the earth, or the workmanship of his hands upon the face of it, according to his will and pleasure?“Wherefore, brethren, seek not to counsel the Lord, but to take counsel from his hand.”5In order to understand the mysteries of God, or those things that can be understood only through revelation, we must follow the example of Nephi, who said, “Being exceedingly young, nevertheless being large in stature, and also having great desires to know of the mysteries of God, wherefore, I did cry unto the Lord; and behold he did visit me, and did soften my heart that I did believe all the words which had been spoken by my father.”6 The Lord Himself further explained that Nephi had exercised faith, sought diligently with lowliness of heart, and kept His commandments.7Nephi’s example of seeking knowledge included (1) a sincere desire, (2) humility, (3) prayer, (4) trust in the prophet, and an exercise of (5) faith, (6) diligence, and (7) obedience.
This method of seeking is in great contrast to my “prying at the plates,” or trying to force an understanding of things meant to be revealed according to the Lord’s timetable and through the power of the Holy Ghost.In this modern age, we have come to expect that knowledge can and should be obtained immediately; when information is not easily known or accessible, it is often dismissed or mistrusted.
Because of the abundance of information, some unwittingly give more credibility to available sources with an unknown origin rather than relying on the Lord’s established pattern for receiving personal revelation.
Jacob could have been describing our time when he said: “But behold, [they] were a stiffnecked people; and they despised the words of plainness … and sought for things that they could not understand.
Wherefore, because of their blindness, which blindness came by looking beyond the mark, they must needs fall; for God hath taken away his plainness from them, and delivered unto them many things which they cannot understand, because they desired it.”8In contrast is President Dieter F. Uchtdorf’s counsel.
He spoke of missionaries, but his words are equally applicable to all seekers of spiritual truth.
“When … missionaries have faith in Jesus Christ,” he said, “they will trust the Lord enough to follow His commandments—even when they do not completely understand the reasons for them.
Their faith will be manifest through diligence and through work.”9During last April’s general conference, Elder Dallin H. Oaks explained: “The Church is making great efforts to be transparent with the records we have, but after all we can publish, our members are sometimes left with basic questions that cannot be resolved by study.
… Some things can be learned only by faith.”10Ancient prophets taught this same principle, demonstrating that over time human nature has not changed and that the Lord’s pattern for learning is timeless.
Consider this Old Testament proverb: “Trust in the Lord with all thine heart; and lean not unto thine own understanding.”11Isaiah explained, speaking for the Lord, “For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts.”12Nephi added another witness when he proclaimed, “O Lord, I have trusted in thee, and I will trust in thee forever.”13Faith and trust in the Lord require us to acknowledge that His wisdom is superior to our own.
We must also acknowledge that His plan provides the greatest potential for spiritual development and learning.We were never expected “to have a perfect knowledge of things” during this mortal existence.
Instead, we are expected to “hope for things which are not seen, which are true.”14Even with Nephi’s great faith, he acknowledged his limited understanding when he responded to the angel who asked him, “Knowest thou the condescension of God?” Nephi replied, “I know that he loveth his children; nevertheless, I do not know the meaning of all things.”15Similarly, Alma expressed to his son Helaman, “Now these mysteries are not yet fully made known unto me; therefore I shall forbear.”16I express my witness that our Father in Heaven loves His children, and yet, like Nephi and Alma, I do not know the meaning of all things.
Nor do I need to know all things; I too shall forbear and wait patiently upon the Lord, knowing “I have all things as a testimony that these things are true; and ye also have all things as a testimony unto you that they are true.
…“… The scriptures are laid before thee, yea, and all things denote there is a God; yea, even the earth, and all things that are upon the face of it, yea, and its motion, yea, and also all the planets which move in their regular form do witness that there is a Supreme Creator.”17As we acknowledge that we are the workmanship of a wise and devoted Father in Heaven, “O then,” why not allow Him to guide our spiritual development and learning “according to his will and pleasure” rather than our own?18He lives.
Jesus Christ is His Only Begotten Son and the Redeemer of mankind.
Because of Christ’s infinite Atonement, He has the wisdom and foresight to guide us in these latter days.
Joseph Smith is His prophet, chosen to restore His kingdom on earth to its fulness.
Thomas S. Monson is His living prophet and spokesman today.
Of this I bear my sincere witness in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
A rope is an essential tool with which all of us are familiar.
Ropes are made from strands of fabric, plants, wire, or other materials that are each individually twisted or braided together.
Interestingly, substances that may be quite unexceptional can be woven together and become exceptionally strong.
Thus, effectively connecting and binding ordinary materials can produce an extraordinary tool.Just as a rope obtains its strength from many intertwined individual strands, so the gospel of Jesus Christ provides the greatest perspective of truth and offers the richest blessings as we heed the admonition of Paul to “gather together in one all things in Christ, both which are in heaven, and which are on earth; even in him.”1 Importantly, this vital gathering of truth is centered in and focused upon the Lord Jesus Christ because He is “the way, the truth, and the life.”2I pray that the Holy Ghost will enlighten each of us as we consider how the principle of gathering together in one all things in Christ applies in practical ways to learning and living His restored gospel in our daily lives.A Revelatory SeasonWe live in a remarkable and revelatory season of the restored Church of Jesus Christ.
The historic adjustments announced today have only one overarching purpose: to strengthen faith in Heavenly Father and His plan and in His Son, Jesus Christ, and His Atonement.
The Sunday meeting schedule was not simply shortened.
Rather, we now have increased opportunities and responsibilities as individuals and families to use our time for enhancing the Sabbath as a delight at home and at church.Last April, the organizational structure of priesthood quorums was not merely changed.
Rather, emphasis and strength were given to a higher and holier way of ministering to our brothers and sisters.Much like the braided strands of a rope produce a powerful and durable tool, all of these interrelated actions are part of a unified effort to better align the focus, resources, and work of the Savior’s restored Church with its fundamental mission: to assist God in His work to bring to pass the salvation and exaltation of His children.
Please do not focus primarily upon the logistical aspects of what has been announced.
We must not allow procedural details to obscure the overarching spiritual reasons these changes now are being made.Our desire is that faith in the Father’s plan and in the Savior’s redeeming mission might increase in the earth and that God’s everlasting covenant might be established.3 Our only objectives are to facilitate continuing conversion to the Lord and to love more completely and serve more effectively our brothers and sisters.Segmenting and SeparatingSometimes as members of the Church we segment, separate, and apply the gospel in our lives by creating lengthy checklists of individual topics to study and tasks to accomplish.
But such an approach potentially can constrain our understanding and vision.
We must be careful because pharisaical focus upon checklists can divert us from drawing closer to the Lord.The purpose and purification, the happiness and joy, and the continuing conversion and protection that come from “yielding [our] hearts unto God”4 and “[receiving] his image in [our] countenances”5 cannot be obtained merely by performing and checking off all the spiritual things we are supposed to do.
Rather, the power of the Savior’s gospel to transform and bless us flows from discerning and applying the interrelatedness of its doctrine, principles, and practices.
Only as we gather together in one all things in Christ, with firm focus upon Him, can gospel truths synergistically enable us to become what God desires us to become6 and endure valiantly to the end.7Learning and Linking Gospel TruthsThe gospel of Jesus Christ is a magnificent tapestry of truth “fitly framed”8 and woven together.
As we learn and link together revealed gospel truths, we are blessed to receive precious perspective and increased spiritual capacity through eyes that can see the Lord’s influence in our lives and ears that can hear His voice.9 And the principle of gathering together in one—even in Him—can assist us in changing the traditional checklists into a unified, integrated, and complete whole.
Let me provide both a doctrinal and a Church example of what I am suggesting.Example 1.
The fourth article of faith is one of the greatest illustrations of gathering together in one all things in Christ: “We believe that the first principles and ordinances of the Gospel are: first, Faith in the Lord Jesus Christ; second, Repentance; third, Baptism by immersion for the remission of sins; fourth, Laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost.”10True faith is focused in and on the Lord Jesus Christ—in Him as the divine and Only Begotten Son of the Father and on Him and the redemptive mission He fulfilled.
“For he hath answered the ends of the law, and he claimeth all those who have faith in him; and they who have faith in him will cleave unto every good thing; wherefore he advocateth the cause of the children of men.”11 Exercising faith in Christ is trusting and placing our confidence in Him as our Savior, on His name, and in His promises.The first and natural consequence of trusting in the Savior is repenting and turning away from evil.
As we exercise faith in and on the Lord, we naturally turn toward, come unto, and depend upon Him.
Thus, repentance is trusting in and relying upon the Redeemer to do for us what we cannot do for ourselves.
Each of us must “[rely] wholly upon the merits of him who is mighty to save”12 because only “through the merits, and mercy, and grace of the Holy Messiah”13 can we become new creatures in Christ14 and ultimately return to and dwell in the presence of God.The ordinance of baptism by immersion for the remission of sins requires us to trust in Him, rely upon Him, and follow Him.
Nephi proclaimed, “I know that if ye shall follow the Son, with full purpose of heart, acting no hypocrisy and no deception before God, but with real intent, repenting of your sins, witnessing unto the Father that ye are willing to take upon you the name of Christ, by baptism—yea, by following your Lord and your Savior down into the water, according to his word, behold, then shall ye receive the Holy Ghost; yea, then cometh the baptism of fire and of the Holy Ghost.”15The ordinance of laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost requires us to trust in Him, rely upon Him, follow Him, and press forward in Him with the assistance of His Holy Spirit.
As Nephi declared, “And now … I know by this that unless a man shall endure to the end, in following the example of the Son of the living God, he cannot be saved.”16The fourth article of faith does not simply identify the fundamental principles and ordinances of the restored gospel.
Rather, this inspired statement of beliefs gathers together in one all things in Christ: trusting in and on Him, relying upon Him, following Him, and pressing forward with Him—even in Him.Example 2.
I now want to describe how all Church programs and initiatives are gathered together in one in Christ.
Many additional illustrations could be presented; I will use only a selected few.In 1978, President Spencer W. Kimball instructed members of the Church to build up the strength of Zion throughout the world.
He counseled the Saints to remain in their native lands and establish strong stakes by gathering the family of God and teaching them the ways of the Lord.
He further indicated that more temples would be built and promised blessings for the Saints wherever they lived in the world.17As the number of stakes increased, the need was intensified for member homes to “become [places] where family members [loved] to be, where they [could] enrich their lives and find mutual love, support, appreciation, and encouragement.”18 Consequently, in 1980, Sunday meetings were consolidated into a three-hour block to “reemphasize personal and family responsibility for learning, living, and teaching the gospel.”19 This emphasis on family and the home again was affirmed in “The Family: A Proclamation to the World,” introduced by President Gordon B. Hinckley in 1995.20In April of 1998, President Hinckley announced the construction of many more small temples, thereby bringing the sacred ordinances of the Lord’s house closer to Latter-day Saint individuals and families throughout the world.21 And these enhanced opportunities for spiritual growth and development were complemented by related increases in temporal self-reliance through the introduction of the Perpetual Education Fund in 2001.22During his administration, President Thomas S. Monson repeatedly exhorted the Saints to go “to the rescue” and emphasized caring for the poor and needy as one of the Church’s divinely appointed responsibilities.
Continuing the emphasis on temporal preparation, the Self-Reliance Services initiative was implemented in 2012.Over the past several years, essential principles about making the Sabbath day a delight in the home and at church have been emphasized and reinforced,23 thus preparing us for the Sunday meeting schedule adjustment that was announced in this session of general conference.And six months ago, Melchizedek Priesthood quorums were strengthened and aligned more effectively with the auxiliaries to accomplish a higher and holier approach to ministering.I believe that the sequence and timing of these actions over many decades can help us to see one united and comprehensive work and not just a series of independent and discrete initiatives.
“God has revealed a pattern of spiritual progress for individuals and families through ordinances, teaching, programs, and activities that are home centered and Church supported.
Church organizations and programs exist to bless individuals and families and are not ends in themselves.”24I pray we can recognize the Lord’s work as one great worldwide work that is becoming ever more home centered and Church supported.
I know and testify that the Lord is revealing and “will yet reveal many great and important things pertaining to the Kingdom of God.”25Promise and TestimonyI began my message by highlighting the strength that is created as individual strands of material are twisted or braided together into a rope.
In a similar way, I promise that increased perspective, purpose, and power will be evident in our learning and living of the restored gospel of Jesus Christ as we strive to gather together in one all things in Christ—even in Him.All opportunities and blessings of eternal consequence originate in, are possible and have purpose because of, and endure through the Lord Jesus Christ.
As Alma testified: “There is no other way or means whereby man can be saved, only in and through Christ.
Behold, he is the life and the light of the world.”26I joyfully declare my witness of the divinity and living reality of the Eternal Father and of His Beloved Son, Jesus Christ.
In our Savior we find joy.
And in Him we find the assurance of “peace in this world, and eternal life in the world to come.”27 I so testify in the sacred name of the Lord Jesus Christ, amen.
One of Heavenly Father’s most beloved tools in guiding His children is righteous grandparents.
My father’s mother was such a woman.
On an occasion that took place when I was too young to remember, my father was disciplining me.
Observing this correction, my grandmother said, “Monte, I believe you are correcting him too harshly.”My father replied, “Mother, I will correct my children as I want.”And my wise grandmother softly stated, “And so will I.”I’m pretty sure my father heard the wise guidance of his mother that day.When thinking of guidance, we might think of a hymn we all know and love—“I Am a Child of God.” In the chorus we find the words “Lead me, guide me, walk beside me, help me find the way.”1Until recently, I understood that chorus to be divine direction to parents.
While pondering these words, I realized that while they contain that direction, there exists a far greater meaning.
Individually, we each plead daily that Heavenly Father will guide us, lead us, and walk beside us.President Dieter F. Uchtdorf explained: “Our Father in Heaven knows His children’s needs better than anyone else.
It is His work and glory to help us at every turn, giving us marvelous temporal and spiritual resources to help us on our path to return to Him.”2Listen to those words: Heavenly Father knows what you and I need better than anyone else.
As a result, He has developed a personal care package suited to each one of us.
It has many components.
It includes His Son and the Atonement, the Holy Ghost, commandments, scriptures, prayer, prophets, apostles, parents, grandparents, local Church leaders, and many others—all to help us return to live with Him someday.May I share today just a few of the components of the care package that have made me recognize that a loving Father is leading, guiding, and walking beside me and my family?
My prayer is that each of you will recognize in your experiences that Heavenly Father is leading, guiding, and walking beside you and, with that knowledge, you will proceed with confidence, knowing you are never really alone.Heavenly Father’s commandments are key components of the care package.
Alma declared, “Wickedness never was happiness.”3 Tolerating improper behavior without loving correction is false compassion and reinforces the common notion that wickedness might in fact be happiness.
Samuel the Lamanite clearly countered this notion: “Ye have sought for happiness in doing iniquity, which thing is contrary to the nature of that righteousness which is in our great and Eternal Head.”4Through His prophets, Heavenly Father constantly reminds us that righteousness is happiness.
King Benjamin, for example, taught that Heavenly Father “doth require that ye should do as he hath commanded you; for which if ye do, he doth immediately bless you.”5 From another hymn comes the similar reminder:Keep the commandments; keep the commandments!In this there is safety; in this there is peace.He will send blessings.6Around my 14th birthday, I learned about some of these blessings.
I noticed different behavior on the part of my parents.
Considering what I observed, I asked, “Are we going on a mission?” The shock on my mother’s face confirmed my suspicion.
Later, in a family council, my siblings and I learned that our parents had been called to preside over a mission.We lived on a beautiful ranch in Wyoming.
From my perspective, life was perfect.
I could come home from school, complete my chores, and be off hunting, fishing, or exploring with my dog.Shortly after learning of the calling, I realized that I would have to give up my dog, Blue.
I confronted my father, asking what I should do with Blue.
I wanted to emphasize the unfairness of what God was requiring.
I will never forget this response.
He said, “I’m not sure.
He probably cannot go with us, so you had better ask Heavenly Father.” That was not the response I had anticipated.I began reading the Book of Mormon.
I earnestly prayed to know if I had to give my dog away.
My answer did not come in a moment; rather, a specific thought kept penetrating my mind: “Don’t be a burden to your parents.
Don’t be a burden.
I have called your parents.”I knew what Heavenly Father required.
That knowledge did not reduce the pain of giving my dog away.
However, through that small sacrifice, my heart softened and I found peace in seeking Heavenly Father’s will.I thank my Heavenly Father for the blessings and happiness I found through the scriptures, prayer, the Holy Ghost, and a worthy earthly father who embraced his role as the principal gospel teacher of his children.
They were leading me, guiding me, and even walking beside me to help me find the way—especially when I had to do something difficult.In addition to having the care package components I’ve mentioned, we are each blessed with a priesthood leader to lead and guide us.President Boyd K. Packer said: “Bishops are inspired!
Each of us has agency to accept or reject counsel from our leaders, but never disregard the counsel of your bishop, whether given over the pulpit or individually.”7These men strive to represent the Lord.
Whether we are old or young, when Satan wants us to think all is lost, bishops are there to guide us.
When speaking with bishops, I have found a common theme regarding confessions of disobedience or the innocent suffering from terrible wrongs.
Bishops instantly want to express Heavenly Father’s love for the individual and a desire to walk beside him or her as he or she finds the way home.Perhaps Heavenly Father’s greatest care package component is described in these words: “For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son.”8To teach us all that we must do, Jesus Christ led the way by giving the perfect example that we must try to emulate.
He pleads with us with arms outstretched to come, follow Him.9 And when we fail, which we all do, He reminds us, “For behold, I, God, have suffered these things for all, that they might not suffer if they would repent.”10What a wonderful gift!
Repentance is not a punishment; it is a privilege.
It is a privilege that leads and guides us.
No wonder the scriptures declare that we should teach nothing save repentance.11Heavenly Father has many resources, but often He uses another person to assist Him.
Daily He gives us opportunities to lead, guide, and walk beside one in need.
We must follow the example of the Savior.
We too must be about Heavenly Father’s work.As the Young Men General Presidency, we know that youth are blessed when they have parents and leaders who act for Heavenly Father in leading, guiding, and walking beside them.
Three principles12 that will help us become part of Heavenly Father’s care package for others are:First, be with the youth.
President Henry B. Eyring emphasized this point: “There are some things we can do that could matter most.
Even more powerful than using words in our teaching the doctrine will be our examples of living the doctrine.”13 To lead youth requires being with them.
Devoted time is an expression of love that allows us to teach by word and example.Second, to truly guide youth, we must connect them with heaven.
The time always comes when each must stand alone.
Only Heavenly Father can be there to guide at all times and in all places.
Our youth must know how to seek Heavenly Father’s guidance.Third, we must let youth lead.
Like the loving parent who holds the hand of a toddler learning to walk, we must let go in order for youth to progress.
Letting youth lead requires patience and love.
It is harder and takes more time than doing it ourselves.
They may stumble along the way, but we walk beside them.Brothers and sisters, there will be times in our lives when the blessings of guidance seem distant or lacking.
For such times of distress, Elder D. Todd Christofferson promised: “Let your covenants be paramount and let your obedience be exact.
Then you can ask in faith, nothing wavering, according to your need, and God will answer.
He will sustain you as you work and watch.
In His own time and way He will stretch forth His hand to you, saying, ‘Here am I.’”14At one such time, I sought Heavenly Father’s counsel through constant and heartfelt prayer for more than a year to find the solution to a difficult situation.
I knew logically that Heavenly Father answers all sincere prayers.
Yet I reached such desperation one day that I attended the temple with one question: “Heavenly Father, do You really care?”I was sitting near the back of the Logan Utah Temple waiting room when, to my surprise, entering the room that day was the temple president, Vaughn J. Featherstone, a close family friend.
He stood at the front of the congregation and welcomed all of us.
When he noticed me among the temple patrons, he stopped speaking, looked me in the eyes, and then said, “Brother Brough, it is good to see you in the temple today.”I will never forget the feeling of that simple moment.
It was as if—in that greeting—Heavenly Father was stretching forth His hand and saying, “Here am I.”Heavenly Father really does care and listen to and answer every child’s prayer.15 As one of His children, I know the answer to my prayers came in the Lord’s time.
And through that experience, I understood more than ever that we are children of God and that He has sent us here so that we can feel His presence now and return to live with Him someday.I testify that Heavenly Father does lead us, guide us, and walk beside us.
As we follow His Son and give heed to His servants, the apostles and prophets, we will find the way to eternal life.
In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
My beloved brethren, I am grateful for the privilege of speaking to you in this historic general conference.
We have sustained President Russell M. Nelson as the 17th President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
As I have had the blessing of working with him each day, I have felt a confirmation of the Spirit that President Nelson is called of God to lead the Lord’s true Church.It is also my witness that the Lord has called Elder Gerrit W. Gong and Elder Ulisses Soares to serve as members of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles.
I love and sustain them.
They will, by their ministry, bless lives across the world and across generations.This conference is historic for yet another reason.
President Nelson has announced an inspired step forward in the Lord’s organized plan for His Church.
That plan includes a new structure for priesthood quorums in wards and stakes so that we may better fulfill our priesthood responsibilities.
Those responsibilities all have to do with our priesthood care of our Father’s children.The Lord’s plan for His Saints to provide loving care has taken many forms over the years.
In the early days of Nauvoo, the Prophet Joseph Smith needed an organized way to care for the flood of largely impoverished converts coming into the city.
Four of my great-grandparents were among them—the Eyrings, Bennions, Romneys, and Smiths.
The Prophet organized the care of those Saints by geography.
In Illinois those divisions of the city were called “wards.”As the Saints moved across the plains, their care for each other was organized in “companies.” One of my paternal great-grandfathers was returning from his mission in what is now Oklahoma when he met a company on the trail.
He was so weak with disease that he and his companion were on their backs in a little wagon.The leader of the company sent two young women to help whoever might be in that forlorn wagon.
One of them, a young sister who had been converted in Switzerland, took a look at one of the missionaries and felt compassion.
He was saved by that company of Saints.
He recovered enough to walk the rest of the way to the Salt Lake Valley with his young rescuer by his side.
They fell in love and married.
He became my great-grandfather Henry Eyring, and she my great-grandmother Maria Bommeli Eyring.Years later, when people remarked at the great difficulty of moving across a continent, she said, “Oh no, it wasn’t hard.
While we walked, we talked the whole way about what a miracle it was that we had both found the true gospel of Jesus Christ.
It was the happiest time I can remember.”Since then, the Lord has used a variety of ways to help His Saints care for each other.
Now He has blessed us with strengthened and unified quorums at the ward and stake levels—quorums that work in coordination with all ward organizations.Municipal wards, companies, and strengthened quorums have all required at least two things to be successful in the Lord’s intent to have His Saints care for each other in the way He cares for them.
They succeed when the Saints feel the love of Christ for each other above their self-interest.
The scriptures call it “charity … the pure love of Christ” (Moroni 7:47).
And they succeed when the Holy Ghost guides the caregiver to know what the Lord knows is best for the person whom He is trying to help.Time after time in recent weeks, members of the Church have acted in my presence as if somehow they had anticipated what the Lord was going to do, as has been announced here today.
Let me give you just two examples.
One, a simple sacrament meeting talk by a 14-year-old teacher in the Aaronic Priesthood who understands what priesthood holders can accomplish in their service for the Lord.
Second, a Melchizedek Priesthood holder who, with the love of Christ, was inspired to serve a family.First, let me give you the words of the young man speaking to a ward sacrament meeting.
I was there.
Try to remember what you were like when you were 14 years old and listen to hear him say more than so young a man could reasonably know:“I have really liked being a member of the teachers quorum in our ward since I turned 14 last year.
A teacher still has all the responsibilities of a deacon plus some new ones.“Since some of us are teachers, others will be someday, and everyone in the Church is blessed by the priesthood, so it’s important for all of us to know more about the duties of a teacher.“First of all, Doctrine and Covenants 20:53 says, ‘The teacher’s duty is to watch over the church always, and be with and strengthen them.’“Next, Doctrine and Covenants 20:54–55 says:“‘And see that there is no iniquity in the church, neither hardness with each other, neither lying, backbiting, nor evil speaking;“‘And see that the church meet together often, and also see that all the members do their duty.’”The young man continued:“The Lord is telling us it’s our responsibility to not only care for the Church but to also care for the people within the Church the way that Christ would because this is His Church.
If we are trying to keep the commandments, be kind to each other, be honest, be good friends, and enjoy being together, then we will be able to have the Spirit with us and know what Heavenly Father wants us to do.
If we don’t, then we can’t fulfill our calling.”He went on to say:“When a teacher chooses to set the right example by being a good home teacher, greeting the members at church, preparing the sacrament, helping at home, and being a peacemaker, he’s choosing to honor his priesthood and fulfill his calling.“Being a good teacher doesn’t only mean being responsible when we are at church or at Church activities.
The Apostle Paul taught, ‘Be thou an example of the believers, in word, in conversation, in charity, in spirit, in faith, in purity’ (1 Timothy 4:12).”Then the young man said:“No matter where we are or what we are doing, we can be a good example of righteousness at all times and in all places.“My dad and I home teach the Browns.1 Every time we go over there, I have a great time visiting and getting to know them.
One thing I really like about the Browns is whenever we go over there, they are all willing to listen and they always have good stories to share.“When we know people in the ward well because of home teaching, it makes it easier to do the next duty of a teacher, and that’s greeting the members at church.
Helping people feel welcome and included at church helps all the members of the ward feel loved and prepared to take the sacrament.“After greeting members who have come to church, teachers help each Sunday by preparing the sacrament.
I really enjoy passing and preparing the sacrament in this ward because everyone is so reverent.
I always feel the Spirit when I prepare and pass the sacrament.
It’s a real blessing to me that I’m able to do it every Sunday.“Some service like passing the sacrament is something people see and they thank us for doing it, but other service like preparing the sacrament is usually done without anyone noticing.
It isn’t important if people see us serving; what’s important is that the Lord knows we have served Him.“As teachers, we should always try to strengthen the Church, our friends, and our family by fulfilling our priesthood responsibilities.
It’s not always easy, but the Lord gives no commandments to us ‘save he shall prepare a way for [us to] accomplish the thing which he commandeth’ (1 Nephi 3:7).”As that young man concluded, I continued to be amazed at his maturity and wisdom.
He summarized by saying, “I know we will become better if we choose to follow [Jesus Christ].”Another story of priesthood service was told a month ago in a ward sacrament meeting.
Again, I was there.
In this case, the seasoned Melchizedek Priesthood holder didn’t know as he spoke that he was describing exactly what the Lord desires to happen with strengthened priesthood quorums.
Here is the gist of his account:He and a home teaching companion were assigned to serve seven families.
Almost all of them did not want visits.
When the home teachers went to their apartments, they refused to answer the door.
When they telephoned, they did not get an answer.
When they left a message, the call was not returned.
This senior companion finally resorted to a letter-writing ministry.
He even began to use bright yellow envelopes in the hope of getting a response.One of the seven families was a less-active single sister who had emigrated from Europe.
She had two young children.After many attempts to contact her, he received a text message.
She abruptly informed him that she was too busy to meet with home teachers.
She had two jobs and was in the military as well.
Her primary job was that of a police officer, and her career goal was to become a detective and then return to her native country and continue her work there.The home teacher never was able to visit with her in her home.
He periodically texted her.
Every month he sent a handwritten letter, supplemented with holiday cards for each child.He received no response.
But she knew who her home teachers were, how to contact them, and that they would persist in their priesthood service.Then one day he received an urgent text from her.
She desperately needed help.
She did not know who the bishop was, but she did know her home teachers.In a few days, she had to leave the state for a monthlong military training exercise.
She could not take her children with her.
Her mother, who was going to care for her children, had just flown to Europe to care for her husband, who had a medical emergency.This less-active single sister had enough money to buy a ticket to Europe for her youngest child but not for her 12-year-old son, Eric.2 She asked her home teacher if he could find a good LDS family to take Eric into their home for the next 30 days!The home teacher texted back that he would do his best.
He then contacted his priesthood leaders.
The bishop, who was the presiding high priest, gave him approval to approach members of the ward council, including the Relief Society president.The Relief Society president quickly found four good LDS families, with children about Eric’s age, who would take him into their homes for a week at a time.
Over the next month, these families fed Eric, found room for him in their already crowded apartments or small homes, took him on their previously planned summer family activities, brought him to church, included him in their family home evenings, and on and on.The families with boys Eric’s age included him in their deacons quorum meetings and activities.
During this 30-day period, Eric was in church every Sunday for the first time in his life.After his mother came home from her training, Eric continued to attend church, usually with one of these four volunteer LDS families or others who had befriended him, including his mother’s visiting teachers.
In time, he was ordained a deacon and began passing the sacrament regularly.Now let us look into Eric’s future.
We will not be surprised if he becomes a leader in the Church in his mother’s home country when his family returns there—all because of Saints who worked together in unity, under the direction of a bishop, to serve out of charity in their hearts and with the power of the Holy Ghost.We know that charity is essential for us to be saved in the kingdom of God.
Moroni wrote, “Except ye have charity ye can in nowise be saved in the kingdom of God” (Moroni 10:21; see also Ether 12:34).We also know that charity is a gift bestowed upon us after all we can do.
We must “pray unto the Father with all the energy of heart, that [we] may be filled with this love, which he hath bestowed upon all who are true followers of his Son, Jesus Christ” (Moroni 7:48).It seems to me that we receive the Holy Spirit best when we are focused on serving others.
That is why we have the priesthood responsibility to serve for the Savior.
When we are engaged in service to others, we think less about ourselves, and the Holy Ghost can more readily come to us and help us in our lifelong quest to have the gift of charity bestowed upon us.I bear you my witness that the Lord has already begun a great step forward in His plan for us to become even more inspired and charitable in our priesthood ministering service.
I am grateful for His love, which He so generously gives us.
I so testify in the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.
While preparing for the construction of the magnificent Paris France Temple, I had an experience I will never forget.
In 2010, when property for the temple was found, the city mayor asked to meet with us to know more about our Church.
This meeting was a critical step in obtaining a building permit.
We meticulously prepared a presentation that included several impressive pictures of Latter-day Saint temples.
My most fervent hope was that their architectural beauty would persuade the mayor to support our project.To my surprise, the mayor indicated that rather than reviewing our presentation, he and his team preferred to conduct their own investigation to find out what kind of church we were.
The following month, we were invited back to hear a report given by a city councilor who also happened to be a professor of religious history.
She said, “Above all else, we wanted to understand who the members of your church are.
First, we attended one of your sacrament meetings.
We sat at the back of the chapel and carefully observed the people in the congregation and what they were doing.
Then we met with your neighbors—those who live around your stake center—and we asked them what kind of people you Mormons are.”“So what are your conclusions?” I asked, feeling a little bit of anxiety.
She replied, “We discovered that The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the closest to Jesus Christ’s original Church than any other church we know of.” I almost objected by saying, “That’s not completely accurate!
It’s not the church that is closest; it is the Church of Jesus Christ—the same Church, the true Church!” But I restrained myself and instead offered a silent prayer of gratitude.
The mayor then advised us that, based on their findings, he and his team had no objections to the construction of a temple in their community.Today, when I think about that miraculous experience, I feel grateful for the mayor’s wisdom and spirit of discernment.
He knew that the key to understanding the Church is not to see it through the outward appearance of its buildings or even as a well-organized institution but through its millions of faithful members, who strive each day to follow the example of Jesus Christ.The definition of the Church might be derived from a passage in the Book of Mormon that states, “And they [meaning the Lord’s disciples] who were baptized in the name of Jesus were called the church of Christ.”1In other words, the Church is all about people.
It is all about you, the Lord’s disciples—those who love and follow Him and who have taken His name upon them by covenant.President Russell M. Nelson once likened the Church to a nice automobile.
We all love it when our vehicle is clean and shiny.
But the car’s purpose is not to stand out as an attractive machine; it is to move the people in the car.2 In the same manner, we, as members of the Church, appreciate having beautiful places of worship that are clean and well maintained, and we also enjoy having well-functioning programs.
But these are merely support systems.
Our sole aim is to invite each son and daughter of God to come unto Christ and to guide him or her along the covenant path.
Nothing is more important.
Our work is all about people and covenants.Isn’t it wonderful that the name given by revelation to the restored Church binds together the two most important elements in each gospel covenant?
First is the name Jesus Christ.
This Church belongs to Him, and His sanctifying Atonement and covenants are the only pathway to salvation and exaltation.
The second name refers to us: the Saints, or in other words, His witnesses and His disciples.I learned the importance of focusing on people when I served as a stake president in France.
At the beginning of my service, I had in mind some very ambitious goals for the stake: the creation of new wards, the building of new meetinghouses, and even the construction of a temple in our area.
When I was released six years later, not one of these objectives had been achieved.
This could have felt like a complete failure except that, during the course of those six years, my objectives had become quite different.As I sat on the stand on the day of my release, I was overwhelmed by a profound sense of gratitude and accomplishment.
I looked at the faces of the hundreds of members in attendance.
I could recall a spiritual experience connected with each one of them.There were those brothers and sisters who had entered the waters of baptism, those for whom I had signed their first recommends so they could receive the sacred ordinances of the temple, and those young people and couples I had set apart or released as full-time missionaries.
There were many others to whom I had ministered as they were going through trials and adversity in their lives.
I felt intense brotherly love for each of them.
I had found pure joy in serving them and rejoiced in their increased loyalty to and faith in the Savior.President M. Russell Ballard taught, “What is most important in our Church responsibilities is not the statistics that are reported or the meetings that are held but whether or not individual people—ministered to one at a time just as the Savior did—have been lifted and encouraged and ultimately changed.”3My dear brothers and sisters, are we active in the gospel, or are we merely busy in the Church?
The key is to follow the example of the Savior in all things.
If we do that, we will naturally focus on saving individuals rather than performing tasks and implementing programs.Have you ever asked yourself what it would be like if the Savior visited your ward or branch next Sunday?
What would He do?
Would He be worried to know if the visual aids were good enough or if the chairs were positioned properly in the classroom?
Or would He find someone He could love, teach, and bless?
Perhaps He would seek out a new member or a friend to welcome, a sick brother or sister in need of comfort, or a wavering young person who needed to be lifted and encouraged.What classes would Jesus visit?
I wouldn’t be surprised if He visited the Primary children first.
He would probably kneel down and speak to them eye to eye.
He would express His love to them, tell them stories, congratulate them on their drawings, and testify of His Father in Heaven.
His attitude would be simple, genuine, and without affectation.
Can we do likewise?I promise you that as you strive to be on the Lord’s agenda, nothing will become more important than finding those people you can help and bless.
At church you will focus on teaching individuals and touching their hearts.
Your concern will be to foster a spiritual experience rather than organize a perfect activity, to minister to your fellow members rather than check a box for the number of visits you have made.
It will not be about you but about them whom we call our brothers and our sisters.Sometimes we talk about going to church.
But the Church is more than a building or a particular place.
It is just as real and alive in the humblest of dwellings in the most remote areas of the world as it is here at Church headquarters in Salt Lake City.
The Lord Himself said, “For where two or three are gathered together in my name, there am I in the midst of them.”4We take the Church with us wherever we go: to work, to school, on vacation, and especially in our homes.
Our very presence and influence can be enough to make wherever we find ourselves a holy place.I remember a conversation I had with a friend who is not a member of our faith.
He was surprised to learn that any worthy man in our Church could receive the priesthood.
He asked, “But how many priesthood holders do you have in your ward?”I answered, “Between 30 and 40.”Perplexed, he continued, “In my congregation, we have only one priest.
Why do you need so many priests on Sunday morning?”Intrigued by his question, I felt inspired to reply, “I agree with you.
I don’t think we need that many priesthood holders at church on Sunday.
But we do need a priesthood holder in every home.
And when there is no priesthood holder in a home, other priesthood holders are called upon to watch over and minister to that family.”Ours is not just a Sunday church.
Our worship continues each day of the week, wherever we are and in whatever we do.
Our homes in particular are “the primary sanctuaries of our faith.”5 It is most often in our homes that we pray, we bless, we study, we teach the word of God, and we serve with pure love.
I can testify from personal experience that our homes are sacred places where the Spirit can abound—as much as, and sometimes even more than, in our formal places of worship.I bear witness that this Church is the Church of Jesus Christ.
Its strength and vitality come from the daily actions of millions of His disciples who strive each day to follow His supreme example by caring for others.
Christ lives and He directs this Church.
President Russell M. Nelson is the prophet whom He has chosen to lead and guide us in our days.
Of these things I testify in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
My dear brethren, I am honored by the privilege to address you in this worldwide gathering of faithful holders of the priesthood of God.
This evening I reference a topic about which I have spoken before.The prophet Mormon outlined one of the key characteristics of the Savior and which is to be emulated by His disciples.
Said he:“And if a man be meek and lowly in heart, and confesses by the power of the Holy Ghost that Jesus is the Christ, he must needs have charity; for if he have not charity he is nothing; wherefore he must needs have charity.“And charity suffereth long, and is kind, and envieth not, and is not puffed up, seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked.
…“Wherefore, my beloved brethren, if ye have not charity, ye are nothing, for charity never faileth.
Wherefore, cleave unto charity, which is the greatest of all, for all things must fail—“But charity is the pure love of Christ, and it endureth forever; and whoso is found possessed of it at the last day, it shall be well with him.”1Brethren, we do not honor the priesthood of God if we are not kind to others.My dear friend and associate Elder Joseph B. Wirthlin was truly a kind man.
Said he:“Kindness is the essence of a celestial life.
Kindness is how a Christlike person treats others.
Kindness should permeate all of our words and actions at work, at school, at church, and especially in our homes.“Jesus, our Savior, was the epitome of kindness and compassion.”2The scriptures teach us that the righteous exercise of the priesthood is dependent upon our living the principles of kindness, charity, and love.
In the Doctrine and Covenants we read:“No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the priesthood, only by persuasion, … by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned;“By kindness, and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul without hypocrisy, and without guile.”3Brethren, let us examine our lives and determine to follow the Savior’s example by being kind, loving, and charitable.
And as we do so, we will be in a better position to call down the powers of heaven for ourselves, for our families, and for our fellow travelers in this sometimes difficult journey back to our heavenly home.
I so pray in the name of Jesus Christ the Lord, amen.
My dear brothers and sisters, in December 2013 the world mourned the death of Nelson Mandela.
After 27 years of imprisonment for his role in the antiapartheid struggle, Mandela was the first democratically elected president of South Africa.
His forgiveness of those who had imprisoned him was remarkable.
He received widespread acclaim and praise.1 Mandela frequently deflected accolades by saying, “I’m no saint—that is, unless you think a saint is a sinner who keeps on trying.”2This statement—“a saint is a sinner who keeps on trying”—should reassure and encourage members of the Church.
Although we are referred to as “Latter-day Saints,” we sometimes flinch at this reference.
The term Saints is commonly used to designate those who have achieved an elevated state of holiness or even perfection.
And we know perfectly well that we are not perfect.Our theology does teach us, though, that we may be perfected by repeatedly and iteratively “relying wholly upon” the doctrine of Christ: exercising faith in Him, repenting, partaking of the sacrament to renew the covenants and blessings of baptism, and receiving the Holy Ghost as a constant companion to a greater degree.
As we do so, we become more like Christ and are able to endure to the end, with all that that entails.3 In less formal terms, God cares a lot more about who we are and who we are becoming than about who we once were.4 He cares that we keep on trying.The comedy As You Like It, written by the English playwright William Shakespeare, depicts a dramatic change in a character’s life.
An older brother attempts to have his younger brother killed.
Even knowing this, the younger brother saves his wicked brother from certain death.
When the older brother learns of this undeserved compassion, he is totally and forever changed and has what he calls a “conversion.” Later several women approach the older brother and ask, “Was’t you that did so oft contrive to kill [your brother]?”The older brother answers, “’Twas I; but ’tis not I: I do not shame to tell you what I was, since my conversion so sweetly tastes, being the thing I am.”5For us, because of God’s mercy and the Atonement of Jesus Christ, such a change is not just literary fiction.
Through Ezekiel, the Lord declared:“As for the wickedness of the wicked, he shall not fall thereby in the day that he turneth from his wickedness.
…“… If he turn from his sin, and do that which is lawful and right;“… Restore the pledge, give again that he had robbed, walk in the statutes of life, without committing iniquity; he shall surely live.
…“None of his sins that he hath committed shall be mentioned unto him: he hath done that which is lawful and right.”6In His mercy, God promises forgiveness when we repent and turn from wickedness—so much so that our sins will not even be mentioned to us.
For us, because of the Atonement of Christ and our repentance, we can look at our past deeds and say, “’Twas I; but ’tis not I.” No matter how wicked, we can say, “That’s who I was.
But that past wicked self is no longer who I am.”7President Thomas S. Monson has taught, “One of God’s greatest gifts to us is the joy of trying again, for no failure ever need be final.”8 Even if we’ve been a conscious, deliberate sinner or have repeatedly faced failure and disappointment, the moment we decide to try again, the Atonement of Christ can help us.
And we need to remember that it is not the Holy Ghost that tells us we’re so far gone that we might as well give up.God’s desire that Latter-day Saints keep on trying also extends beyond overcoming sin.
Whether we suffer because of troubled relationships, economic challenges, or illnesses or as a consequence of someone else’s sins, the Savior’s infinite Atonement can heal even—and perhaps especially—those who have innocently suffered.
He understands perfectly what it is like to suffer innocently as a consequence of another’s transgression.
As prophesied, the Savior will “bind up the brokenhearted, … give … beauty for ashes, the oil of joy for mourning, [and] the garment of praise for the spirit of heaviness.”9 No matter what, with His help, God expects Latter-day Saints to keep on trying.Just as God rejoices when we persevere, He is disappointed if we do not recognize that others are trying too.
Our dear friend Thoba shared how she learned this lesson from her mother, Julia.
Julia and Thoba were among the early black converts in South Africa.
After the apartheid regime ended, black and white members of the Church were permitted to attend church together.
For many, the equality of interaction between the races was new and challenging.
One time, as Julia and Thoba attended church, they felt they were treated less than kindly by some white members.
As they left, Thoba complained bitterly to her mother.
Julia listened calmly until Thoba had vented her frustration.
Then Julia said, “Oh, Thoba, the Church is like a big hospital, and we are all sick in our own way.
We come to church to be helped.”Julia’s comment reflects a valuable insight.
We must not only be tolerant while others work on their individual illnesses; we must also be kind, patient, supportive, and understanding.
As God encourages us to keep on trying, He expects us to also allow others the space to do the same, at their own pace.
The Atonement will come into our lives in even greater measure.
We will then recognize that regardless of perceived differences, all of us are in need of the same infinite Atonement.Some years ago a wonderful young man named Curtis was called to serve a mission.
He was the kind of missionary every mission president prays for.
He was focused and worked hard.
At one point he was assigned a missionary companion who was immature, socially awkward, and not particularly enthusiastic about getting the work done.One day, while they were riding their bicycles, Curtis looked back and saw that his companion had inexplicably gotten off his bike and was walking.
Silently, Curtis expressed his frustration to God; what a chore it was to be saddled with a companion he had to drag around in order to accomplish anything.
Moments later, Curtis had a profound impression, as if God were saying to him, “You know, Curtis, compared to me, the two of you aren’t all that different.” Curtis learned that he needed to be patient with an imperfect companion who nonetheless was trying in his own way.My invitation to all of us is to evaluate our lives, repent, and keep on trying.
If we don’t try, we’re just latter-day sinners; if we don’t persevere, we’re latter-day quitters; and if we don’t allow others to try, we’re just latter-day hypocrites.10 As we try, persevere, and help others to do the same, we are true Latter-day Saints.
As we change, we will find that God indeed cares a lot more about who we are and about who we are becoming than about who we once were.11I am deeply grateful for the Savior, for His infinite Atonement, and for latter-day prophets who encourage us to be Latter-day Saints, to keep on trying.12 I witness of the Savior’s living reality in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
Brothers and sisters, I, like all of you, recognize we are seeing the hastening of the Lord’s work through President Thomas S. Monson and his message this morning.
President Monson, we love you, sustain you, and ever pray for you, “our prophet dear.”1We have felt an outpouring of the Spirit this weekend.
Whether you are here in this great hall or watching from homes or gathered in meetinghouses in distant parts of the world, you have had the opportunity to feel the Spirit of the Lord.
That Spirit confirms to your hearts and minds the truths taught at this conference.Consider the words of this familiar hymn:Let the Holy Spirit guide;Let him teach us what is true.He will testify of Christ,Light our minds with heaven’s view.2From latter-day revelation we know that the Godhead is comprised of three distinct and separate beings: our Father in Heaven; His Only Begotten Son, Jesus Christ; and the Holy Ghost.
We know that “the Father has a body of flesh and bones as tangible as man’s; the Son also; but the Holy Ghost has not a body of flesh and bones, but is a personage of Spirit.
Were it not so, the Holy Ghost could not dwell in us.”3My message today focuses on the importance of the Holy Ghost in our lives.
Our Father in Heaven knew that in mortality we would face challenges, tribulation, and turmoil; He knew we would wrestle with questions, disappointments, temptations, and weaknesses.
To give us mortal strength and divine guidance, He provided the Holy Spirit, another name for the Holy Ghost.The Holy Ghost binds us to the Lord.
By divine assignment, He inspires, testifies, teaches, and prompts us to walk in the light of the Lord.
We have the sacred responsibility to learn to recognize His influence in our lives and respond.Remember the Lord’s promise: “I will impart unto you of my Spirit, which shall enlighten your mind, which shall fill your soul with joy.”4 I love that assurance.
Joy that fills our souls brings with it an eternal perspective in contrast to day-to-day living.
That joy comes as peace amidst hardship or heartache.
It provides comfort and courage, unfolds the truths of the gospel, and expands our love for the Lord and all God’s children.
Although the need for such blessings is so great, in many ways the world has forgotten and forsaken them.Each week as we partake of the holy sacrament, we make a covenant to “always remember him,” the Lord Jesus Christ, and His atoning sacrifice.
When we keep this sacred covenant, the promise is given that we “may always have his Spirit to be with [us].”5How do we do that?First, we strive to live worthy of the Spirit.The Holy Ghost accompanies those who are “strict to remember the Lord their God from day to day.”6 As the Lord counseled, we must “lay aside the things of this world, and seek for the things of a better,”7 for “the Spirit of the Lord doth not dwell in unholy temples.”8 We must always try to obey God’s laws, study the scriptures, pray, attend the temple, and live true to the thirteenth article of faith, “being honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, and … doing good to all men.”Second, we must be willing to receive the Spirit.The Lord has promised, “I will tell you in your mind and in your heart, by the Holy Ghost, which shall come upon you and which shall dwell in your heart.”9 I began to understand this as a young missionary in Scotch Plains, New Jersey.
One hot July morning my companion and I felt prompted to look up a Temple Square referral.
We knocked on the door of the Elwood Schaffer home.
Mrs. Schaffer politely turned us away.As she began to shut the door, I felt to do something I had never done before and have never done since!
I stuck my foot in the door, and I asked, “Is there anyone else who might be interested in our message?” Her 16-year-old daughter, Marti, did have an interest and had fervently prayed for guidance just the day before.
Marti met with us, and in time her mother participated in the discussions.
Both of them joined the Church.Resulting from Marti’s baptism, 136 people, including many of her own family, have been baptized and made gospel covenants.
How grateful I am that I listened to the Spirit and stuck my foot in the door on that hot July day.
Marti and a number of her dear family members are here today.Third, we must recognize the Spirit when it comes.My experience has been that the Spirit most often communicates as a feeling.
You feel it in words that are familiar to you, that make sense to you, that prompt you.
Consider the response of the Nephites as they listened to the Lord pray for them: “And the multitude did hear and do bear record; and their hearts were open and they did understand in their hearts the words which he prayed.”10 They felt in their hearts the words of His prayer.
The voice of the Holy Spirit is still and small.In the Old Testament, Elijah contended with the priests of Baal.
The priests expected the “voice” of Baal to come down as thunder and light their sacrifice with fire.
But there was no voice, and there was no fire.11On a later occasion, Elijah prayed.
“And, behold, the Lord passed by, and a great and strong wind rent the mountains, and brake in pieces the rocks before the Lord; but the Lord was not in the wind: and after the wind an earthquake; but the Lord was not in the earthquake:“And after the earthquake a fire; but the Lord was not in the fire: and after the fire a still small voice.”12Do you know that voice?President Monson has taught, “As we pursue the journey of life, let us learn the language of the Spirit.”13 The Spirit speaks words that we feel.
These feelings are gentle, a nudge to act, to do something, to say something, to respond in a certain way.
If we are casual or complacent in our worship, drawn off and desensitized by worldly pursuits, we find ourselves diminished in our ability to feel.
Nephi said to Laman and Lemuel, “Ye have heard his voice from time to time; and he hath spoken unto you in a still small voice, but ye were past feeling, that ye could not feel [the] words.”14Last June, I was on an assignment to South America.
We were on a tight 10-day schedule visiting Colombia, Peru, and Ecuador.
An enormous earthquake had killed hundreds, injured tens of thousands, damaged and destroyed homes and communities in the Ecuadorian cities of Portoviejo and Manta.
I felt prompted to add to our schedule a visit to members living in those cities.
With damage to the roads, we weren’t sure we could get there.
In fact, we had been told we could not get there, but the prompting would not go away.
Consequently, we were blessed and were able to visit both cities.With such short notice, I expected that only a few local priesthood leaders would attend the hastily organized gatherings.
However, we arrived at each stake center to find the chapels filled all the way back to the stage.
Some who attended were the stalwarts of the region, the pioneers who had held fast to the Church, encouraging others to join them in worship and to feel the Spirit in their lives.
Sitting on the front rows were the members who had lost loved ones and neighbors in the earthquake.
I felt prompted to bestow an apostolic blessing upon all who were in attendance, one of my very first given.
Though I was standing at the front of that room, it was as if my hands were on each of their heads, and I felt the words of the Lord pouring forth.It didn’t end there.
I felt prompted to speak to them just as Jesus Christ had done when visiting the people in the Americas.
“He took their little children … and blessed them, and prayed unto the Father for them.”15 We were in Ecuador, we were about our Father’s business, and these were His children.Fourth, we must act on the first prompting.Remember the words of Nephi.
“I was led by the Spirit, not knowing beforehand the things which I should do.
Nevertheless,” he said, “I went forth.”16And so must we.
We must be confident in our first promptings.
Sometimes we rationalize; we wonder if we are feeling a spiritual impression or if it is just our own thoughts.
When we begin to second-guess, even third-guess, our feelings—and we all have—we are dismissing the Spirit; we are questioning divine counsel.
The Prophet Joseph Smith taught that if you will listen to the first promptings, you will get it right nine times out of ten.17Now a caution: don’t expect fireworks because you responded to the Holy Ghost.
Remember, you are about the work of the still, small voice.While serving as a mission president in New York City, I was with some of our missionaries in a restaurant in the Bronx.
A young family came in and sat near us.
They appeared golden for the gospel.
I watched our missionaries as they continued to visit with me, then noticed as the family concluded their meal and slipped out the door.
Then I said, “Elders, there’s a lesson here today.
You saw a lovely family come into this restaurant.
What should we have done?”One of the elders spoke up quickly: “I thought about getting up and going over to talk to them.
I felt the nudge, but I didn’t respond.”“Elders,” I said, “we must always act on our first prompting.
That nudge you felt was the Holy Ghost!”First promptings are pure inspiration from heaven.
When they confirm or testify to us, we need to recognize them for what they are and never let them slip past.
So often, it is the Spirit inspiring us to reach out to someone in need, family and friends in particular.
“Thus … the still small voice, which whispereth through and pierceth all things,”18 points us to opportunities to teach the gospel, to bear testimony of the Restoration and Jesus Christ, to offer support and concern, and to rescue one of God’s precious children.Think of it as being what is called a first responder.
In most communities the first responders to a tragedy, disaster, or calamity are firefighters, police officers, paramedics.
They arrive with lights flashing, and may I add, we are so incredibly grateful for them.
The Lord’s way is less obvious but requires just as immediate a response.
The Lord knows the needs of all His children—and He knows who is prepared to help.
If we let the Lord know in our morning prayers that we are ready, He will call on us to respond.
If we respond, He will call on us time and time again and we will find ourselves on what President Monson calls “the Lord’s errand.”19 We will become spiritual first responders bringing help from on high.If we pay attention to the promptings that come to us, we will grow in the spirit of revelation and receive more and more Spirit-driven insight and direction.
The Lord has said, “Put your trust in that Spirit which leadeth to do good.”20May we take seriously the Lord’s call to “be of good cheer, for I will lead you along.”21 He leads us by the Holy Ghost.
May we live close to the Spirit, acting quickly upon our first promptings, knowing they come from God.
I bear witness of the power of the Holy Ghost to guide us, guard us, and ever be with us, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
My beloved brothers and sisters, as we come to the close of this historic conference, I join with you in thanking the Lord for His direction and inspiring influence.
The music has been beautiful and uplifting.
Not only have the messages been edifying, but they have been life-changing!In solemn assembly we sustained a new First Presidency.
Two great men have been placed in the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles.
And eight new General Authority Seventies have been called.Now a favorite hymn summarizes our renewed resolve, our challenge, and our charge going forward:Let us all press on in the work of the Lord,That when life is o’er we may gain a reward;In the fight for right let us wield a sword,The mighty sword of truth.Fear not, though the enemy deride;Courage, for the Lord is on our side.We will heed not what the wicked may say,But the Lord alone we will obey.1I exhort you to study the messages of this conference frequently—even repeatedly—during the next six months.
Conscientiously look for ways to incorporate these messages in your family home evenings, your gospel teaching, your conversations with family and friends, and even your discussions with those not of our faith.
Many good people will respond to the truths taught in this conference when offered in love.
And your desire to obey will be enhanced as you remember and reflect upon what you have felt these past two days.This general conference marks the beginning of a new era of ministering.
The Lord has made important adjustments in the way we care for each other.
Sisters and brothers—old and young—will serve one another in a new, holier way.
Elders quorums will be strengthened to bless the lives of men, women, and children throughout the world.
Relief Society sisters will continue to minister in their unique and loving way, extending opportunities to younger sisters to join them as appropriately assigned.Our message to the world is simple and sincere: we invite all of God’s children on both sides of the veil to come unto their Savior, receive the blessings of the holy temple, have enduring joy, and qualify for eternal life.2Eventual exaltation requires our complete fidelity now to covenants we make and ordinances we receive in the house of the Lord.
At this time, we have 159 functioning temples, and more are under construction.
We want to bring temples closer to the expanding membership of the Church.
So we are now pleased to announce plans to construct seven more temples.
Those temples will be located in the following locations: Salta, Argentina; Bengaluru, India; Managua, Nicaragua; Cagayan de Oro, Philippines; Layton, Utah; Richmond, Virginia; and a major city yet to be determined in Russia.My dear brothers and sisters, construction of these temples may not change your life, but your time in the temple surely will.
In that spirit, I bless you to identify those things you can set aside so you can spend more time in the temple.
I bless you with greater harmony and love in your homes and a deeper desire to care for your eternal family relationships.
I bless you with increased faith in the Lord Jesus Christ and a greater ability to follow Him as His true disciples.I bless you to raise your voice in testimony, as I do now, that we are engaged in the work of Almighty God!
Jesus is the Christ.
This is His Church, which He directs through His anointed servants.
I so testify, with my expression of love for each of you, in the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.
How blessed we are to assemble again in this worldwide conference under the direction and leadership of our dear prophet and President, Thomas S. Monson.
President, we love you and we sustain you with all our hearts!During my professional life as a pilot, I relied greatly on the precision and reliability of computer systems but rarely had to work my own personal computer.
In my office work as an executive, I had assistants and secretaries who kindly helped me with the tasks.All this changed in 1994, when I was called as a General Authority.
My calling consisted of many wonderful opportunities to minister, but it also included a great deal of Church office work—more than I ever thought possible.To my shock, the main tool to stay on top of my work was a personal computer.For the first time in my life, I had to delve into this strange, mystifying, incomprehensible world.From the start, the computer and I were not on the friendliest of terms.Able tech people tried to teach me how to use the computer.
They literally stood behind me, reaching over my shoulder, their fingers moving quickly and tapping a percussive symphony against the keyboard.“See?” they would say proudly.
“That’s how you do it.”I did not see.
It was a rocky transition.My learning curve was more like a brick wall.It took a great deal of time, repetition, patience; no small amount of hope and faith; lots of reassurance from my wife; and many liters of a diet soda that shall remain nameless.Now, 22 years later, I am surrounded by computer technology.
I have an email address, a Twitter account, and a Facebook page.
I own a smartphone, a tablet, a laptop, and a digital camera.
And, while my tech skills may not quite measure up to those of a typical seven-year-old, for a septuagenarian, I do all right.But I have noticed something interesting.
The more adept I get at technology, the more I take it for granted.For a large part of human history, communication happened at the speed of a horse.
Sending a message and getting a reply could take days or even months.
Today our messages travel thousands of miles into the sky or thousands of meters beneath the oceans to reach someone on the other side of the world, and if there is a delay of even a few seconds, we get frustrated and impatient.It seems to be human nature: as we become more familiar with something, even something miraculous and awe-inspiring, we lose our sense of awe and treat it as commonplace.Do We Take Spiritual Truths for Granted?Taking for granted our modern technologies and conveniences may be a relatively small matter.
But, sadly, we sometimes take a similar attitude toward the eternal and soul-expanding doctrine of the gospel of Jesus Christ.
In the Church of Jesus Christ, we have been given so much.
We are surrounded by such an astonishing wealth of light and truth that I wonder if we truly appreciate what we have.Think of those early disciples who walked and talked with the Savior during His earthly ministry.
Imagine the thanksgiving and reverence that must have flooded their hearts and filled their minds when they saw Him risen from the tomb, when they felt the wounds in His hands.
Their lives would never be the same!Think of the early Saints of this dispensation who knew the Prophet Joseph Smith and heard him preach the restored gospel.
Imagine how they must have felt to know that the veil between heaven and earth had parted again, shedding light and knowledge upon the world from our celestial home above.But most of all, think of how you felt when for the first time you believed and understood that you are truly a child of God; that Jesus Christ willingly suffered for your sins so that you may be clean again; that priesthood power is real and can bind you to your loved ones for time and for all eternity; that there is a living prophet on the earth today.
Isn’t that wonderful and amazing?Considering all of this, how could it ever be possible that we of all people would not be excited about attending our Church worship services?
Or get tired of reading the holy scriptures?
I suppose this could be possible only if our hearts were past feeling to experience gratitude and awe for the sacred and sublime gifts God has granted us.
Life-changing truths are before our eyes and at our fingertips, but sometimes we sleepwalk on the path of discipleship.
Too often we let ourselves be distracted by the imperfections of our fellow members instead of following the example of our Master.
We tread a path covered with diamonds, but we can scarcely distinguish them from ordinary pebbles.A Familiar MessageWhen I was a young man, my friends would ask me about my religion.
Often I would start to explain the differences, like the Word of Wisdom.
Other times I would emphasize the similarities with other Christian religions.
None of this would impress them very much.
But when I talked about the great plan of happiness our Father in Heaven has for us as His children, I had their attention.I remember trying to draw the plan of salvation on a blackboard in a classroom of our chapel in Frankfurt, Germany.
I made circles that represented premortal life, mortality, and the return to our Heavenly Parents after this life.As a teenager, how I loved to share this exciting message.
When I explained these principles in my own simple words, my heart would overflow with gratitude for a God who loves His children and a Savior who redeemed all of us from death and hell.
I was so proud of this message of love, joy, and hope.Some of my friends would say that this message felt familiar, even though such things were never taught in their religious upbringing.
It was as if they had always known these things to be true, as if I was simply casting light on something that was always and deeply rooted in their hearts.We Have Answers!I believe every human being carries in his or her heart some form of fundamental questions regarding life itself.
Where did I come from?
Why am I here?
What will happen after I die?These kinds of questions have been asked by mortals since the dawn of time.
Philosophers, scholars, and pundits have spent their lives and fortunes seeking for answers.I am grateful that the restored gospel of Jesus Christ has answers to the most complex questions in life.
These answers are taught in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
They are true, plain, straightforward, and easy to understand.
They are inspired, and we teach them to our three-year-olds in the Sunbeam class.Brothers and sisters, we are eternal beings, without beginning and without end.
We have always existed.1 We are the literal spirit children of divine, immortal, and omnipotent Heavenly Parents!We come from the heavenly courts of the Lord our God.
We are of the royal house of Elohim, the Most High God.
We walked with Him in our premortal life.
We heard Him speak, witnessed His majesty, learned His ways.You and I participated in a Grand Council where our beloved Father presented His plan for us—that we would come to earth, receive mortal bodies, learn to choose between good and evil, and progress in ways that would not otherwise be possible.When we passed through the veil and entered this mortal life, we knew that we would no longer remember the life before.
There would be opposition and adversity and temptation.
But we also knew that gaining a physical body was of paramount importance for us.
Oh, how we hoped that we would quickly learn to make the correct choices, withstand the temptations of Satan, and eventually return to our beloved Parents in Heaven.We knew we would sin and make mistakes—perhaps even serious ones.
But we also knew that our Savior, Jesus Christ, had pledged to come to earth, live a sinless life, and voluntarily lay down His life in an eternal sacrifice.
We knew that if we gave our heart to Him, trusted Him, and strived with all the energy of our soul to walk in the path of discipleship, we could be washed clean and once again enter the presence of our beloved Father in Heaven.So, with faith in the sacrifice of Jesus Christ, you and I accepted, by our free will, Heavenly Father’s plan.That is why we are here on this beautiful planet earth—because God offered us the opportunity, and we chose to accept it.
Our mortal life, however, is only temporary and will end with the death of our physical body.
But the essence of who you and I are will not be destroyed.
Our spirits will continue living and await the Resurrection—a free gift to all by our loving Heavenly Father and His Son, Jesus Christ.2 At the Resurrection, our spirits and bodies will be reunited, free from pain and physical imperfections.After the Resurrection, there will be a Day of Judgment.
While all will eventually be saved and inherit a kingdom of glory, those who trust in God and seek to follow His laws and ordinances will inherit lives in the eternities that are unimaginable in glory and overwhelming in majesty.That Day of Judgment will be a day of mercy and love—a day when broken hearts are healed, when tears of grief are replaced with tears of gratitude, when all will be made right.3Yes, there will be deep sorrow because of sin.
Yes, there will be regrets and even anguish because of our mistakes, our foolishness, and our stubbornness that caused us to miss opportunities for a much greater future.But I have confidence that we will not only be satisfied with the judgment of God; we will also be astonished and overwhelmed by His infinite grace, mercy, generosity, and love for us, His children.
If our desires and works are good, if we have faith in a living God, then we can look forward to what Moroni called “the pleasing bar of the great Jehovah, the Eternal Judge.”4Pro Tanto Quid RetribuamusMy beloved brothers and sisters, my dear friends, does it not fill our hearts and minds with wonder and awe to contemplate the great plan of happiness our Heavenly Father has prepared for us?
Does it not fill us with unspeakable joy to know of the glorious future that is prepared for all who wait upon the Lord?If you have never felt such wonder and joy, I invite you to seek, study, and ponder the simple yet profound truths of the restored gospel.
“Let the solemnities of eternity rest upon your minds.”5 Let them bear testimony unto you of the divine plan of salvation.If you have felt these things before, I ask you today, “Can [you] feel so now?”6Recently I had the opportunity to travel to Belfast, Northern Ireland.
While there, I noticed the Belfast Coat of Arms, which includes the motto “Pro tanto quid retribuamus,” or “What shall we give in return for so much?”7I invite each of us to consider this question.
What shall we give in return for the flood of light and truth God has poured out upon us?Our beloved Father simply asks that we live by the truth we have received and that we follow the path He has provided.
Therefore, let us take courage and trust in the guidance of the Spirit.
Let us in word and in deed share with our fellowmen the amazing and awe-inspiring message of God’s plan of happiness.
May our motive be our love for God and for His children, for they are our brothers and sisters.
This is the beginning of what we can do in return for so much.Someday “every knee shall bow, and every tongue confess” that God’s ways are just and His plan is perfect.8 For you and me, let that day be today.
Let us proclaim, with Jacob of old, “O how great the plan of our God!”9Of this I testify in deep gratitude to our Heavenly Father, as I leave you my blessing, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
Good afternoon, my dear brothers and sisters.
As we say in my native Brazilian Portuguese, “Boa tarde!” I feel blessed to gather together in this wonderful general conference of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints under the direction of our beloved prophet, President Russell M. Nelson.
I marvel at the great opportunity each of us has to listen to the Lord’s voice through His servants on earth in these latter days we are living in.My home country of Brazil is very rich in natural resources.
One of them is the famous Amazon River, one of the largest and longest rivers in the world.
It is formed by two separate rivers, the Solimões and Negro.
Interestingly, they flow together for a number of miles before the waters blend, due to the rivers having very different origins, speeds, temperatures, and chemical compositions.
After several miles, the waters finally blend together, becoming a river different than its individual parts.
Only after these parts merge, the Amazon River becomes so powerful that when it reaches the Atlantic Ocean, it pushes back the seawater so that fresh water can still be found for many miles out into the ocean.In a similar way that the Solimões and Negro Rivers flow together to make the great Amazon River, the children of God come together in the restored Church of Jesus Christ from different social backgrounds, traditions, and cultures, forming this wonderful community of Saints in Christ.
Eventually, as we encourage, support, and love each other, we combine to form a mighty force for good in the world.
As followers of Jesus Christ, flowing as one in this river of goodness, we will be able to provide the “fresh water” of the gospel to a thirsty world.The Lord has inspired His prophets to teach us how we can support and love each other so we can become united in faith and purpose in following Jesus Christ.
Paul, the New Testament Apostle, taught that those who “have been baptized into Christ have put on Christ … : for ye are all one in Christ Jesus.”1When we promise at baptism to follow the Savior, we witness before the Father that we are willing to take upon us the name of Christ.2 As we strive to acquire His divine attributes in our lives, we become different than we were, through the Atonement of Christ the Lord, and our love for all people increases naturally.3 We feel a sincere concern for everyone’s welfare and happiness.
We see each other as brothers and sisters, as children of God with divine origin, attributes, and potential.
We desire to care for each other and bear one another’s burdens.4This is what Paul described as charity.5 Mormon, a prophet of the Book of Mormon, described it as “the pure love of Christ,”6 which is the most sublime, noblest, and strongest form of love.
Our current prophet, President Russell M. Nelson, recently described a manifestation of this pure love of Christ as ministering, which is a more focused and holier approach to love and care for other individuals like the Savior did.7Let us consider this principle of love and care, as the Savior did, within the context of encouraging, helping, and supporting those who are recent converts and those beginning to show interest in attending our Church services.When these new friends come out of the world and embrace the gospel of Jesus Christ, joining His Church, they become His disciples, being born again through Him.8 They leave behind a world they knew well and choose to follow Jesus Christ, with full purpose of heart, joining a new “river” like the mighty Amazon River—a river that is a valiant force of goodness and righteousness that flows toward the presence of God.
The Apostle Peter describes it as “a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a peculiar people.”9 As these new friends merge into this new and unfamiliar river, they may feel a little lost at first.
These new friends find themselves blending into a river with unique origins, temperatures, and chemical compositions—a river that has its own traditions, culture, and vocabulary.
This new life in Christ may seem overwhelming for them.
Think for a moment about how they may feel as they hear for the first time such expressions as “FHE,” “BYC,” “fast Sunday,” “baptism for the dead,” “triple combination,” and so forth.It is easy to see why they may feel like they don’t belong.
In such situations, they may ask themselves, “Is there a place for me here?
Do I fit into The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints?
Does the Church need me?
Will I find new friends willing to help and support me?”My dear friends, in such moments, those of us who are at different points in the long journey of discipleship must extend a warm hand of fellowship to our new friends, accept them where they are, and help, love, and include them in our lives.
All of these new friends are precious sons and daughters of God.10 We cannot afford to lose even one of them because, like the Amazon River that depends on tributaries feeding it, we need them just as much as they need us, to become a mighty force for good in the world.Our new friends bring God-given talents, excitement, and goodness within them.
Their enthusiasm for the gospel can be contagious, thereby helping us revitalize our own testimonies.
They also bring fresh perspectives to our understanding of life and the gospel.We have long been taught how we can help our new friends to feel welcome and loved in the restored Church of Jesus Christ.
They need three things so they may remain strong and faithful throughout their lives:First, they need brothers and sisters in the Church who are sincerely interested in them, true and loyal friends to whom they can constantly turn, who will walk beside them, and who will answer their questions.
As members, we should always be attentive and look for new faces when attending Church activities and meetings, regardless of the responsibilities, assignments, or concerns we may have.
We can do simple things to help these new friends feel embraced and welcome in the Church, such as giving a warm greeting, smiling sincerely at them, sitting together to sing and worship, introducing them to other members, and so forth.
As we open our hearts to our new friends in some of these ways, we are acting in the spirit of ministering.
When we minister to them like the Savior did, they won’t feel like “strangers within our gates.” They will feel like they can fit in and make new friends, and most importantly, they will feel the Savior’s love through our genuine care.Second, new friends need an assignment—an opportunity to serve others.
Service is one of the great geniuses of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
It is a process by which our faith can grow stronger.
Every new friend deserves that opportunity.
While the bishop and ward council have direct responsibility to extend assignments soon after their baptism, nothing prevents us, as members, from inviting our new friends to help us serve others informally or through service projects.Third, new friends must be “nourished by the good word of God.”11 We can help them to love and become familiar with the scriptures as we read and discuss the teachings with them, providing context to the stories and explaining difficult words.
We can also teach them how to receive personal guidance through regular scripture study.
In addition, we can reach out to our new friends in their own homes and invite them to ours at times outside of our regularly scheduled Church meetings and activities, helping them merge into the mighty river of the community of Saints.Recognizing the adjustments and challenges our new friends make in becoming members of God’s family, as our brothers and sisters, we can share how we have overcome similar challenges in our lives.
This will help them know that they are not alone and that God will bless them as they exercise faith in His promises.12When the Solimões and Negro Rivers blend together, the Amazon River becomes mighty and strong.
In a similar fashion, when we and our new friends truly merge, the restored Church of Jesus Christ becomes even stronger and steadier.
My sweetheart, Rosana, and I are so grateful for all those who helped us to blend into this new river many years ago, when we embraced the gospel of Jesus Christ in our home country of Brazil.
Throughout the years, these wonderful people have truly ministered to us and have helped us to continue flowing in righteousness.
We are so grateful for them.The prophets in the Western Hemisphere knew well how to keep new friends flowing faithfully together into this new river of goodness toward eternal life.
For example, having seen our day and knowing that we would face similar challenges,13 Moroni included some of those important steps in his writings in the Book of Mormon:“And after they had been received unto baptism, and were wrought upon and cleansed by the power of the Holy Ghost, they were numbered among the people of the church of Christ; and their names were taken, that they might be remembered and nourished by the good word of God, to keep them in the right way, to keep them continually watchful unto prayer, relying alone upon the merits of Christ, who was the author and the finisher of their faith.“And the church did meet together oft, to fast and to pray, and to speak one with another concerning the welfare of their souls.”14My beloved companions in the work of the Lord, I believe we can do much better and should do better in welcoming new friends into the Church.
I invite you to consider what we can do to be more embracing, accepting, and helpful to them, starting this very next Sunday.
Be careful not to let your Church assignments get in the way of welcoming new friends at Church meetings and activities.
After all, these souls are precious before the eyes of God and are much more important than programs and activities.
If we minister to our new friends with our hearts full of pure love as the Savior did, I promise you, in His name, that He will assist us in our efforts.
When we act as faithful ministers, as the Savior did, our new friends will have the help they need to remain strong, dedicated, and faithful to the end.
They will join us as we become a mighty people of God and will help us to bring fresh water to a world desperately in need of the blessings of the gospel of Jesus Christ.
These children of God will feel like they are “no more strangers and foreigners, but fellowcitizens with the saints.”15 I promise you that they will recognize the presence of our Savior, Jesus Christ, in His own Church.
They will continue to flow with us as a river into the fountain of all goodness until they are received with open arms by our Lord, Jesus Christ, and they hear the Father say, “Ye shall have eternal life.”16I invite you to seek the Lord’s help in loving others as He has loved you.
Let us all follow the counsel given by Mormon: “Wherefore, my beloved brethren [and sisters], pray unto the Father with all the energy of heart, that ye may be filled with this love, which he hath bestowed upon all who are true followers of his Son, Jesus Christ.”17 Of these truths, I witness and do so in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
My dear brothers and sisters, we have looked forward to gathering with you again in this October general conference of the Church.
We extend our heartfelt welcome to each of you.
We are deeply grateful for your sustaining prayers.
We can feel their effect.
Thank you!We are grateful for your tremendous efforts to follow through with counsel given at general conference six months ago.
Stake presidencies throughout the world have sought revelation necessary to reorganize elders quorums.
Men of those quorums along with our dedicated Relief Society sisters are working diligently to minister to our brothers and sisters in a higher, holier way.
We are inspired by your goodness and extraordinary efforts to bring the Savior’s love to your families, neighbors, and friends and to minister to them as He would.Since April conference, Sister Nelson and I have met with members on four continents and on islands of the sea.
From Jerusalem to Harare, from Winnipeg to Bangkok, we have experienced your great faith and the strength of your testimonies.We are overjoyed with the number of our youth who have joined the Lord’s youth battalion to help gather scattered Israel.1 We thank you!
And as you continue to follow my invitations offered at our worldwide youth devotional, you are setting a standard for the rest of us to follow.
And what a difference you youth are making!In recent years, we in the presiding councils of the Church have wrestled with a fundamental question: how can we take the gospel in its simple purity and the ordinances with their eternal efficacy to all of God’s children?As Latter-day Saints, we have become accustomed to thinking of “church” as something that happens in our meetinghouses, supported by what happens at home.
We need an adjustment to this pattern.
It is time for a home-centered Church, supported by what takes place inside our branch, ward, and stake buildings.As the Church continues to expand throughout the world, many members live where we have no chapels—and may not for the foreseeable future.
I remember a family who, because of such circumstances, was required to meet in their home.
I asked the mother how she liked going to church in her own home.
She replied, “I like it!
My husband uses better language at home now, knowing that he will bless the sacrament here each Sunday.”The long-standing objective of the Church is to assist all members to increase their faith in our Lord Jesus Christ and in His Atonement, to assist them in making and keeping their covenants with God, and to strengthen and seal their families.
In this complex world today, this is not easy.
The adversary is increasing his attacks on faith and upon us and our families at an exponential rate.
To survive spiritually, we need counterstrategies and proactive plans.
Accordingly, we now want to put in place organizational adjustments that will further fortify our members and their families.For many years, Church leaders have been working on an integrated curriculum to strengthen families and individuals through a home-centered and Church-supported plan to learn doctrine, strengthen faith, and foster greater personal worship.
Our efforts over these recent years to hallow the Sabbath—to make it a delight and a personal sign to God of our love for Him—will be augmented by the adjustments we will now introduce.This morning we will announce a new balance and connection between gospel instruction in the home and in the Church.
We are each responsible for our individual spiritual growth.
And scriptures make it clear that parents have the primary responsibility to teach the doctrine to their children.2 It is the responsibility of the Church to assist each member in the divinely defined goal of increasing his or her gospel knowledge.Elder Quentin L. Cook will now explain these important adjustments.
All members of the Council of the First Presidency and Quorum of the Twelve Apostles are united in endorsing this message.
We gratefully acknowledge the inspiration from the Lord that has influenced the development of the plans and procedures that Elder Cook will present.My dear brothers and sisters, I know that God lives!
Jesus is the Christ!
This is His Church that He directs by prophecy and revelation to His humble servants.
I so testify in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
Dear brothers and sisters, isn’t it marvelous to receive continuing revelation from heaven through President Russell M. Nelson and our Church leaders that invites us to live in new and holier ways,1 at home and at church, with all our heart, mind, and strength?Have you ever had opportunity to do something for which you felt unprepared or inadequate but that you were blessed for trying?I have.
Here’s one example.Some years ago, Elder Richard G. Scott, a member of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, kindly invited, “Gerrit, would you like to watercolor with me?”Elder Scott said painting helped him observe and create.
He has written: “Attempt to be creative, even if the results are modest.
… Creativity can engender a spirit of gratitude for life and for what the Lord has woven into your being.
… If you choose wisely, it doesn’t have to absorb a lot of time.”2President Henry B. Eyring describes his artistic meditations as motivated by “a feeling of love,” including “the love of a Creator who expects His children to become like Him—to create and to build.”3 President Eyring’s creative works provide a “unique, spiritual perspective on testimony and faith.”4President Boyd K. Packer’s artwork illustrates a fundamental gospel message: “God is the Creator of the heavens and the earth and all things that are in them, that all nature bears testimony of that divinely directed creation, and that there is [a] complete harmony between nature, science, and the gospel of Jesus Christ.”5Alma testifies, “All things denote there is a God.”6 Our Primary children sing, “Whenever I hear the song of a bird or look at the blue, blue sky, … I’m glad that I live in this beautiful world Heav’nly Father created for me.”7 Author Victor Hugo celebrates the “miraculous relationships between beings and things; in this inexhaustible whole, from sun to aphid.
… All the birds that fly hold the thread of eternity in their claws.
… A nebula is an anthill of stars.”8And that brings us back to Elder Scott’s invitation.“Elder Scott,” I replied, “I would like to become more observant and creative.
I thrill to imagine Heavenly Father paints with billowing clouds and every hue of sky and water.
But”—here was a long pause—“Elder Scott,” I said, “I have no skill to watercolor.
I worry it may frustrate you to try and teach me.”Elder Scott smiled and arranged for us to meet.
On the appointed day, he prepared the paper, paints, and brushes.
He sketched some outlines and helped wet the paper for me.We used as a model his beautiful watercolor titled Campfire at Sunset.
As we painted, we talked about faith—how as we face the light and warmth of a campfire, we leave the darkness and uncertainty behind us—how on sometimes long, lonely nights, our campfire of faith can give hope and assurance.
And the dawn does come.
Our campfire of faith—our memories, experiences, and heritage of faith in God’s goodness and tender mercies in our life—has strengthened us through the night.My testimony is—for those who seek, allow, and live for it—the dawn of faith, sometimes gradually, will come or can return.
The light will come when we desire and seek it, when we are patient and obedient to God’s commandments, when we are open to God’s grace, healing, and covenants.As we began painting, Elder Scott encouraged, “Gerrit, even with one lesson you will paint something you will want to keep and remember.” Elder Scott was right.
I treasure the watercolor of our campfire of faith Elder Scott helped me paint.
My artistic ability was and remains limited, but the remembrance of our campfire of faith can encourage us in five ways.First, our campfire of faith can encourage us to find joy in wholesome creativity.There is joy in imagining, learning, doing worthwhile new things.
This is especially true as we deepen faith and trust in Heavenly Father and His Son, Jesus Christ.
We cannot love ourselves enough to save ourselves.
But Heavenly Father loves us more and knows us better than we love or know ourselves.
We can trust the Lord and lean not unto our own understanding.9Have you ever been the only one not invited to someone’s birthday party?Have you ever been chosen last, or not chosen, when teams were selected?Have you prepared for a school test, a job interview, an opportunity you really wanted—and you felt you failed?Have you prayed for a relationship that, for whatever reason, has not worked out?Have you faced chronic illness, been abandoned by a spouse, agonized for family?Our Savior knows our circumstances.
As we exercise God-given agency and engage all our faculties in humility and faith, our Savior, Jesus Christ, can help us meet life’s challenges and joys.
Faith includes a desire and choice to believe.
Faith also comes from obeying God’s commandments, given to bless us, as we follow His covenant path.When we have felt, or feel, uncertain, alone, frustrated, angry, let down, disappointed, or estranged from God and His restored Church, it may take an extra measure of effort and faith to enter again on His covenant path.
But it is worth it!
Please come, or come again, unto the Lord Jesus Christ!
God’s love is stronger than the cords of death—temporal or spiritual.10 Our Savior’s Atonement is infinite and eternal.
Each of us strays and falls short.
We may, for a time, lose our way.
God lovingly assures us, no matter where we are or what we have done, there is no point of no return.
He waits ready to embrace us.11Second, our campfire of faith can encourage us to minister in new, higher, and holier Spirit-filled ways.Such ministering brings miracles and the blessings of covenant belonging—where we feel God’s love and seek to minister to others in that spirit.Not long ago, Sister Gong and I became acquainted with a father and family blessed by a faithful priesthood brother who came to their bishop and asked if he (the priesthood brother) could be a home teaching companion with the father.
The father was not active and not interested in home teaching.
But as the father’s heart changed, he and this loving priesthood brother began visiting “their” families.
After one such visit, his wife—herself not then attending church—asked her husband how things had gone.
The father admitted, “I may have felt something”—then he went to the kitchen to get a beer.12But one thing followed another: tender experiences, ministering service, changing hearts, temple preparation class, coming to church, being sealed as a family in the holy temple.
Imagine how grateful the children and grandchildren are to their father and mother and to the ministering brother who came as a friend and companion with their father to minister to and love others.A third campfire of faith encouragement: creative gospel joy and blessings come when we seek to love the Lord and others with all our hearts and souls.The scriptures invite us to place all we are and are becoming on the altar of love and service.
In the Old Testament, Deuteronomy enjoins us to “love the Lord thy God” with all our heart, soul, and might.13 Joshua exhorts, “Love the Lord your God, … walk in all his ways, … keep his commandments, … cleave unto him, and … serve him with all your heart and with all your soul.”14In the New Testament, our Savior states the two great commandments: “Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, … and thy neighbour as thyself.”15In the Book of Mormon: Another Testament of Jesus Christ, King Benjamin labored “with all the might of his body and the faculty of his whole soul” and established peace in the land.16 In the Doctrine and Covenants, as every missionary knows, the Lord asks us to serve Him with all our “heart, might, mind and strength.”17 When the Saints entered Jackson County, the Lord commanded them to keep the Sabbath holy by loving “the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy might, mind, and strength; and in the name of Jesus Christ thou shalt serve him.”18We rejoice in the invitation to devote our whole souls to seeking higher and holier ways to love God and those around us and to strengthen our faith in Heavenly Father and Jesus Christ in our hearts and in our homes and at church.Fourth, our campfire of faith encourages us to establish regular patterns of righteous living that deepen faith and spirituality.These holy habits, righteous routines, or prayerful patterns may include prayer; scripture study; fasting; remembering our Savior and covenants through the ordinance of the sacrament; sharing gospel blessings through missionary, temple and family history, and other service; keeping a thoughtful personal journal; and so on.When righteous patterns and spiritual yearnings join, time and eternity come together.
Spiritual light and life come when regular religious observance draws us closer to our Heavenly Father and our Savior, Jesus Christ.
When we love the spirit and letter of the law, the things of eternity can distill upon our souls like the dews from heaven.19 With daily obedience and refreshing living water, we find answers, faith, and strength to meet everyday challenges and opportunities with gospel patience, perspective, and joy.Fifth, as we keep the best of familiar patterns while seeking new and holier ways to love God and help us and others prepare to meet Him, our campfire of faith can encourage us to remember perfection is in Christ, not in ourselves or in the perfectionism of the world.God’s invitations are full of love and possibility because Jesus Christ is “the way, the truth, and the life.”20 To those who feel burdened, He invites, “Come unto me,” and to those who come to Him, He promises, “I will give you rest.”21 “Come unto Christ, and be perfected in him, … love God with all your might, mind and strength, then is his grace sufficient for you, that by his grace ye may be perfect in Christ.”22In this assurance “by his grace ye may be perfect in Christ” is also the comfort, peace, and promise that we can continue forward with faith and confidence in the Lord even when things do not go as we hope, expect, or perhaps deserve, through no fault of our own, even after we have done our best.In various times and ways, we all feel inadequate, uncertain, perhaps unworthy.
Yet in our faithful efforts to love God and to minister to our neighbor, we may feel God’s love and needed inspiration for their and our lives in new and holier ways.With compassion, our Savior encourages and promises we can “press forward with a steadfastness in Christ, having a perfect brightness of hope, and a love of God and of all men.”23 The doctrine of Christ, our Savior’s Atonement, and our whole-souled following of His covenant path can help us know His truths and make us free.24I testify the fulness of His gospel and His plan of happiness are restored and taught in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, in holy scripture, and by prophets from the Prophet Joseph Smith to President Russell M. Nelson today.
I testify His covenant path leads to the greatest gift our loving Heavenly Father promises: “Ye shall have eternal life.”25May His blessings and enduring joy be ours as we warm our hearts and hopes and commitment at our campfire of faith, I pray in the sacred and holy name of Jesus Christ, amen.
Early in my training as a physician, I had the privilege of helping a young mother deliver her first child.
She was calm, focused, and happy.
When the baby was delivered, I handed the precious newborn to her.
With tears of happiness streaming down her face, she took that brand-new baby into her arms and examined him from head to toe.
She held him close and loved him as only a mother can.
It was a privilege to be in that room with her.Such was the beginning of life for each of us.
Yet was our birth truly the beginning?
The world sees birth and death as the beginning and the end.
But because of God’s holy plan, we know that birth and death are actually just milestones on our journey to eternal life with our Heavenly Father.1 They are essential parts of our Father’s plan—sacred moments when mortality and heaven intersect.
Today, reflecting on what I have learned from observing birth and death through my years of medical practice and Church service, I want to testify of our Father’s glorious plan.“Before we were born, we lived with God, the Father of our spirits.
All [of us] on earth are literally brothers and sisters” in His family,2 and each of us is precious to Him.
We lived with Him for eons of time before our mortal birth—learning, choosing, and preparing.Because Heavenly Father loves us, He wants us to have the greatest gift He can give, the gift of eternal life.3 He could not simply give us this gift; we had to receive it by choosing Him and His ways.
This required that we leave His presence and begin a wonderful and challenging journey of faith, growth, and becoming.
The journey our Father prepared for us is called the plan of salvation or the plan of happiness.4In a grand premortal council, our Father told us about His plan.5 When we understood it, we were so happy that we shouted for joy, and “the morning stars sang together.”6That plan is built upon three grand pillars: the pillars of eternity.7The first pillar is the Creation of the earth, the setting for our mortal journey.8The second pillar is the Fall of our first earthly parents, Adam and Eve.
Because of the Fall, some marvelous things were given to us.
We were able to be born and receive a physical body.9 I will be forever grateful to my mother for bringing my brothers and me into the world and teaching us about God.God also gave us moral agency—the ability and privilege of choosing and acting for ourselves.10 To help us choose well, Heavenly Father gave us commandments.
Each day, as we keep His commandments, we show God that we love Him, and He blesses our lives.11Knowing that we would not always choose well—or in other words, sin—Father gave us the third pillar: the Savior Jesus Christ and His Atonement.
Through His suffering, Christ paid the price for both physical death and sin.12 He taught, “For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life.”13Jesus Christ lived a perfect life, always keeping His Father’s commandments.
“He walked the roads of Palestine,” teaching the truths of eternity, “healing the sick, causing the blind to see, and raising the dead.”14 He “went about doing good”15 and “entreated all to follow His example.”16At the end of His mortal life, He knelt down and prayed, saying:“Father, if thou be willing, remove this cup from me: nevertheless not my will, but thine, be done.
…“And being in an agony he prayed more earnestly: and his sweat was as it were great drops of blood falling down to the ground.”17Christ helped us better understand the magnitude of His suffering when He told the Prophet Joseph Smith:“I, God, have suffered these things for all, that they might not suffer if they would repent;“But if they would not repent they must suffer even as I;“Which suffering caused myself, even God, the greatest of all, to tremble because of pain, and to bleed at every pore, and to suffer both body and spirit.”18There in the Garden of Gethsemane, He began to pay the price for our sins and our sicknesses, our pains and our infirmities.19 Because He did, we will never be alone in those infirmities if we choose to walk with Him.
“He was arrested and condemned on spurious charges, convicted to satisfy a mob, and sentenced to die on Calvary’s cross.” On the cross “He gave [up] His life to atone for the sins of all mankind [in] a great vicarious gift in behalf of all who would ever live upon the earth.”20He declared:“Behold, I am Jesus Christ, whom the prophets testified shall come into the world.“And behold, I am the light and the life of the world; and I have drunk out of that bitter cup which the Father hath given me, and have glorified the Father in taking upon me the sins of the world.”21Then, on the first day of the week,22 He rose from the tomb with a perfect resurrected body, never to die again.
And because He did, so will we.I testify that Christ did indeed rise from the tomb.
But to rise from that tomb, He first had to die.
And so must we.Another of the great blessings of my life has been to feel the closeness of heaven during those moments when I sit at the bedside of people as they pass away.
Early one morning some years ago, I entered the hospital room of a faithful Latter-day Saint widow who had cancer.
Two of her daughters were sitting with her.
As I went to her bedside, I quickly discovered that she was no longer suffering, because she had just died.In that moment of death, the room was filled with peace.
Her daughters had a sweet sadness, but their hearts were filled with faith.
They knew that their mother was not gone but had returned home.23 Even in our moments of deepest grief, in the moments when time stands still and life seems so unfair, we can find comfort in our Savior because He suffered as well.24 It was a privilege for me to be in that room.When we die, our spirits leave our bodies, and we go to the next stage of our journey, the spirit world.
It is a place of learning, repentance, forgiveness, and becoming25 where we await the Resurrection.26On some future great day, everyone who has ever been born will rise from the tomb.
Our spirits and our physical bodies will be reunited in their perfect form.
Everyone will be resurrected, “both old and young, … both male and female, both the wicked and the righteous,” and “every thing shall be restored to its perfect frame.”27After the Resurrection we will have the supreme blessing of being judged by our Savior, who said:“I will draw all men unto me, that they may be judged according to their works.“And it shall come to pass, that whoso repenteth and is baptized in my name shall be filled; and if he endureth to the end, behold, him will I hold guiltless before my Father at that day when I shall stand to judge the world.”28And then, through Christ and His Atonement, all who choose to follow Him through faith, repentance, baptism, receiving the Holy Ghost, and enduring to the end29 will find that their journey’s end is to receive “their divine destiny as heirs of eternal life.”30 They will return to their Father’s presence to live with Him forever.
May we choose well.There is so much more to our existence than just what happens between birth and death.
I invite you to come and follow Christ.31I invite all members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints to, each day, “come unto Christ, and be perfected in him, and deny yourselves of all ungodliness, … [that] through the shedding of the blood of Christ, … ye [may] become holy, without spot.”32I invite those who are not yet members of this Church to come and read the Book of Mormon and listen to the missionaries.
Come and have faith and repent of your sins.
Come and be baptized and receive the Holy Ghost.
Come and live a happy, Christ-filled life.
As you come to Him and keep His commandments, I promise that you can find peace and purpose in this often tumultuous mortal experience and “eternal life in the world to come.”33For those who have experienced these truths and for whatever reason have wandered away, I invite you to come back.
Come back today.
Our Father and the Savior love you.
I testify that Christ has the power to answer your questions, heal your pains and sorrows, and forgive your sins.
I know this is true.
I know that all these things are true.
Christ lives!
This is His Church.
In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
When I was 30 years old, I began working for a retail group in France.
One day the company president, a good man of another faith, called me into his office.
His question startled me: “I just learned you are a priest in your church.
Is that true?”I replied, “Yes, that is correct.
I hold the priesthood.”Visibly intrigued by my response, he further inquired, “But did you study at a theological seminary?”“Of course,” I answered, “between the ages of 14 and 18, and I studied seminary lessons nearly every day!” He almost fell off his chair.To my great surprise, several weeks later he called me back to his office to offer me a managing director position in one of the group’s companies.
I was astonished and expressed my concern that I was too young and inexperienced to hold such an important responsibility.
With a benevolent smile, he said, “That may be true, but it doesn’t matter.
I know your principles, and I know what you’ve learned in your church.
I need you.”He was right about what I had learned in the Church.
The years that followed were challenging, and I don’t know if I could have had any success without the experience I acquired by serving in the Church from the time I was a young man.I had the blessing of growing up in a small branch.
Because our numbers were few, the youth were called upon to actively participate in all aspects of the branch.
I was very busy and loved feeling useful.
On Sundays I officiated at the sacrament table, served in my priesthood quorum, and functioned in various other callings.
During the week I often accompanied my father and other adult priesthood holders as we home taught members, comforted the sick and afflicted, and helped those in need.
No one seemed to think I was too young to serve or even to lead.
For me, it all seemed normal and natural.The service I rendered during those teenage years helped me build my testimony and anchor my life in the gospel.
I was surrounded by good and compassionate men who were committed to using their priesthood to bless the lives of others.
I wanted to be like them.
In serving with them, much more than I realized at the time, I learned to be a leader in the Church and also in the world.We have many young men attending or tuning in to this meeting tonight who hold the Aaronic Priesthood.
As I look out at this audience, I see many of you sitting next to mature men, perhaps your fathers, your grandfathers, your older brothers, or your priesthood leaders—all holders of the Melchizedek Priesthood.
They love you, and in large part, they came here tonight to be with you.This gathering of generations offers a marvelous vision of the unity and brotherhood that exist between the two priesthoods of God.
Even though they are vested with different missions and authority, the Aaronic Priesthood and the Melchizedek Priesthood are inseparable partners in the work of salvation.
They go hand in hand and have great need of each other.The perfect model of the close relationship that exists between the two priesthoods is found in the interaction between Jesus and John the Baptist.
Can one possibly imagine John the Baptist without Jesus?
What would the Savior’s mission have been like without the preparatory work performed by John?John the Baptist was given one of the most noble missions to ever exist: “to prepare the way of the Lord,”1 to baptize Him with water, and to make ready a people to receive Him.
This “just … and … holy [man],”2 who had been ordained to the lesser priesthood, was perfectly aware of both the importance and the limits of his mission and his authority.People flocked to John to hear him and be baptized by him.
He was honored and revered in his own right as a man of God.
But when Jesus appeared, John humbly deferred to One greater than himself and declared, “I baptize with water: but there standeth one among you, … who coming after me is preferred before me, whose shoe’s latchet I am not worthy to unloose.”3For His part, Jesus the Christ, the Only Begotten of the Father, who held the higher priesthood, humbly recognized the authority of John.
Of him, the Savior said, “Among them that are born of women there hath not risen a greater than John the Baptist.”4Just think of what would take place in our priesthood quorums if the relationships between the holders of the two priesthoods were inspired by the pattern established by Jesus and John the Baptist.
My young brethren of the Aaronic Priesthood, like John’s, your role is to “prepare the way”5 for the great work of the Melchizedek Priesthood.
You are doing this in many different ways.
You administer the ordinances of baptism and of the sacrament.
You help prepare a people for the Lord by preaching the gospel, by “[visiting] the house of each member,”6 and by “[watching] over the church.”7 You provide assistance to the poor and needy by collecting fast offerings, and you participate in taking care of Church meetinghouses and other temporal resources.
Your role is important, needful, and sacred.My adult brethren, whether you are fathers, bishops, Young Men advisers, or simply holders of the Melchizedek Priesthood, you can follow the Savior’s example by turning to your brothers who hold the lesser priesthood and inviting them to labor with you.
In reality, this invitation comes from the Lord Himself.
He said, “Therefore, take with you those who are ordained unto the lesser priesthood, and send them before you to make appointments, and to prepare the way, and to fill appointments that you yourselves are not able to fill.”8As you invite your younger brothers to “prepare the way,” you help them recognize and honor the sacred authority they hold.
By doing so, you help them prepare their own way as they prepare for the day that they receive and exercise the higher priesthood.Allow me to share the true story of Alex, a quiet, thoughtful, and bright young priest.
One Sunday, Alex’s bishop found him alone in a classroom in a state of great distress.
The young man explained how painfully difficult it was for him to attend church without his father, who was not a member.
Then he tearfully said it would probably be better for him to leave the Church.With genuine concern for this young man, the bishop immediately mobilized the ward council to help Alex.
His plan was simple: to keep Alex active and help him develop a heartfelt testimony of the gospel, they needed to “surround him with good people and give him important things to do.”Quickly the priesthood brethren and all the ward members rallied around Alex and expressed their affection and support.
The high priests group leader, a man of great faith and love, was chosen to be his home teaching companion.
Members of the bishopric took him under their wings and made him their closest associate.The bishop said: “We kept Alex busy.
He ushered at weddings, ushered at funerals, assisted me at graveside dedications, baptized several new members, ordained young men to Aaronic Priesthood offices, taught youth lessons, taught with the missionaries, unlocked the building for conferences, and locked up the building late at night after conferences.
He did service projects, accompanied me on visits to elderly members in hospices, gave talks in sacrament meeting, administered the sacrament to the sick in hospitals or in their homes, and became one of only a very small handful of people that I could totally rely on as bishop.”Little by little, Alex changed.
His faith in the Lord increased.
He gained confidence in himself and in the power of the priesthood that he held.
The bishop concluded: “Alex has been and will always be one of my greatest blessings in my time as bishop.
What a privilege it has been to associate with him.
I genuinely believe that no young man has ever gone into the mission field more prepared by his priesthood service.”9My dear bishops, you have, included in your ordination and setting apart as bishop of your ward, the sacred calling to serve as president of the Aaronic Priesthood and of the priests quorum.
I am aware of the heavy burdens you carry, but you should make your duty toward these young men one of your highest priorities.
You cannot neglect it or delegate your role in this responsibility to others.I invite you to reflect upon each of the young Aaronic Priesthood holders in your ward.
Not one of them should ever feel left out or useless.
Is there a young man whom you and other priesthood brethren could help?
Invite him to serve alongside you.
Too often we try to entertain our young men and relegate them to a spectator role, when their faith and love for the gospel can be best developed by magnifying their priesthood.
By actively participating in the work of salvation, they will be connected with heaven and they will gain awareness of their divine potential.The Aaronic Priesthood is more than just an age group, a teaching or activity program, or even a term to designate the young men of the Church.
It is power and authority to participate in the great work of saving souls—both the souls of those young men who hold it and the souls of those they serve.
Let us put the Aaronic Priesthood in its rightful place, a choice place—a place of service, preparation, and accomplishment for all the young men of the Church.My dear brethren of the Melchizedek Priesthood, I invite you to strengthen the essential link that unites the two priesthoods of God.
Empower your Aaronic Priesthood youth to prepare the way before you.
Tell them with confidence, “I need you.” To you young holders of the Aaronic Priesthood, I pray that, as you serve with your older brethren, you will hear the voice of the Lord telling you: “Thou art blessed, for thou shalt do great things.
Behold thou wast sent forth, even as John, to prepare the way before me.”10 In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
Tonight, brethren, I pray for the guidance of our Heavenly Father as I share my message with you.In 1833 the Lord revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith a plan for healthy living.
That plan is found in the 89th section of the Doctrine and Covenants and is known as the Word of Wisdom.
It gives specific direction regarding the food we eat, and it prohibits the use of substances which are harmful to our bodies.Those who are obedient to the Lord’s commandments and who faithfully observe the Word of Wisdom are promised particular blessings, among which are good health and added physical stamina.1Recently I read the true account of a dramatic manifestation concerning these promises.
A faithful member of the Church, John A. Larsen, served during World War II in the United States Coast Guard on the ship USS Cambria.
During a battle in the Philippines, word came of an approaching squadron of bombers and kamikaze fighter planes.
Orders were given for immediate evacuation.
Since the USS Cambria was already gone, John and three companions gathered their gear and hurried to the beach, hoping for a lift out to one of the departing ships.
Fortunately, a landing craft picked them up and sped toward the last ship leaving the bay.
The men on that departing ship, in an effort to evacuate as quickly as possible, were busy on deck and had time only to throw ropes to the four men, that they might hopefully be able to climb to the deck.John, with a heavy radio strapped to his back, found himself dangling at the end of a 40-foot (12 m) rope, at the side of a ship headed out to the open sea.
He began pulling himself up, hand over hand, knowing that if he lost his grip, he would almost certainly perish.
After climbing only a third of the way, he felt his arms burning with pain.
He had become so weak that he felt he could no longer hold on.With his strength depleted, as he grimly contemplated his fate, John silently cried unto God, telling Him that he had always kept the Word of Wisdom and had lived a clean life—and he now desperately needed the promised blessings.John later said that as he finished his prayer, he felt a great surge of strength.
He began climbing once again and fairly flew up the rope.
When he reached the deck, his breathing was normal and not the least bit labored.
The blessings of added health and stamina promised in the Word of Wisdom had been his.
He gave thanks to his Heavenly Father then, and throughout the remainder of his life, for the answer to his desperate prayer for help.2Brethren, may we care for our bodies and our minds by observing the principles set forth in the Word of Wisdom, a divinely provided plan.
With all my heart and soul, I testify of the glorious blessings which await us as we do.
That this may be so, I pray in the name of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, amen.
Dear brothers and sisters, today I am blessed to have my 13 oldest grandchildren in the congregation.
This has caused me to ask, “What do I want my grandchildren to know?” This morning I would like to talk frankly to my family and to yours.We as leaders are increasingly concerned about the destruction that pornography is causing in the lives of Church members and their families.
Satan is attacking with unprecedented fury.One reason we are here on earth is to learn to manage the passions and feelings of our mortal bodies.
These God-given feelings help us want to marry and have children.
The intimate marriage relationship between a man and a woman that brings children into mortality is also meant to be a beautiful, loving experience that binds together two devoted hearts, unites both spirit and body, and brings a fulness of joy and happiness as we learn to put each other first.
President Spencer W. Kimball taught that in marriage, “the spouse … becomes preeminent in the life of the husband or wife, and … [no] other interest [or] person [or] thing shall ever take precedence over the companion spouse.
…“Marriage presupposes total allegiance and total fidelity.”1Many years ago one of our children was noticeably distressed.
I stepped into her bedroom, where she opened up her heart and explained to me that she had been at a friend’s home and had accidentally seen startling and disturbing images and actions on the television between a man and a woman without clothing.
She began sobbing and expressed how horrible she felt about what she had seen and wished she could get it out of her mind.
I was so grateful that she would confide in me, giving me a chance to soothe her innocent and aching heart and help her know how to get relief through our Savior’s Atonement.
I remember the sacred feelings I had as we knelt together, as mother and daughter, and petitioned the help of our Heavenly Father.Many children, youth, and adults are innocently exposed to pornography, but a growing number of both men and women are choosing to view it and are drawn back repeatedly until it becomes an addiction.
These individuals may desire with all of their hearts to get out of this trap but often cannot overcome it on their own.
How grateful we are when these loved ones choose to confide in us as parents or a Church leader.
We would be wise not to react with shock, anger, or rejection, which may cause them to be silent again.We as parents and leaders need to counsel with our children and youth on an ongoing basis, listening with love and understanding.
They need to know the dangers of pornography and how it overtakes lives, causing loss of the Spirit, distorted feelings, deceit, damaged relationships, loss of self-control, and nearly total consumption of time, thought, and energy.Pornography is more vile, evil, and graphic than ever before.
As we counsel with our children, together we can create a family plan with standards and boundaries, being proactive to protect our homes with filters on electronic devices.
Parents, are we aware that mobile devices with Internet capacity, not computers, are the biggest culprit?2Young people and adults, if you are caught in Satan’s trap of pornography, remember how merciful our beloved Savior is.
Do you realize how deeply the Lord loves and cherishes you, even now?
Our Savior has the power to cleanse and heal you.
He can remove the pain and sorrow you feel and make you clean again through the power of His Atonement.We as leaders are also greatly concerned about the spouses and families of those suffering from pornography addiction.
Elder Richard G. Scott has pleaded: “If you are free of serious sin yourself, don’t suffer needlessly the consequences of another’s sins.
… You can feel compassion.
… Yet you should not take upon yourself a feeling of responsibility for those acts.”3 Know that you are not alone.
There is help.
Addiction recovery meetings for spouses are available, including phone-in meetings, which allow spouses to call in to a meeting and participate from their own homes.Brothers and sisters, how do we protect our children and youth?
Filters are useful tools, but the greatest filter in the world, the only one that will ultimately work, is the personal internal filter that comes from a deep and abiding testimony of our Heavenly Father’s love and our Savior’s atoning sacrifice for each one of us.How do we lead our children to deep conversion and to access our Savior’s Atonement?
I love the prophet Nephi’s declaration of what his people did to fortify the youth of his day: “We talk of Christ, we rejoice in Christ, we preach of Christ, [and] we prophesy of Christ … that our children may know to what source they may look for a remission of their sins.”4How can we do this in our homes?
Some of you have heard me tell how overwhelmed my husband, Mel, and I felt as the parents of four young children.
As we faced the challenges of parenting and keeping up with the demands of life, we were desperate for help.
We prayed and pleaded to know what to do.
The answer that came was clear: “It is OK if the house is a mess and the children are still in their pajamas and some responsibilities are left undone.
The only things that really need to be accomplished in the home are daily scripture study and prayer and weekly family home evening.”We were trying to do these things, but they were not always the priority and, amidst the chaos, were sometimes neglected.
We changed our focus and tried not to worry about the less-important things.
Our focus became to talk, rejoice, preach, and testify of Christ by striving to daily pray and study the scriptures and have weekly family home evening.A friend recently cautioned, “When you ask the sisters to read the scriptures and pray more, it stresses them out.
They already feel like they have too much to do.”Brothers and sisters, because I know from my own experiences, and those of my husband, I must testify of the blessings of daily scripture study and prayer and weekly family home evening.
These are the very practices that help take away stress, give direction to our lives, and add protection to our homes.
Then, if pornography or other challenges do strike our families, we can petition the Lord for help and expect great guidance from the Spirit, knowing that we have done what our Father has asked us to do.Brothers and sisters, if these have not been practices in our homes, we can all begin now.
If our children are older and refuse to join us, we can start with ourselves.
As we do, the influence of the Spirit will begin to fill our homes and our lives and, over time, children may respond.Remember that living Apostles have also promised that as we search out our ancestors and prepare our own family names for the temple, we will be protected now and throughout our lives as we keep ourselves worthy of a temple recommend.5 What promises!Youth, take responsibility for your own spiritual well-being.
Turn off your phone if necessary, sing a Primary song, pray for help, think of a scripture, walk out of a movie, picture the Savior, take the sacrament worthily, study For the Strength of Youth, be an example to your friends, confide in a parent, go see your bishop, ask for help, and seek professional counseling, if needed.What do I want my grandchildren to know?
I want them and you to know that I know the Savior lives and loves us.
He has paid the price for our sins, but we must kneel before our Father in Heaven, in deep humility, confessing our sins, and plead with Him for forgiveness.
We must want to change our hearts and our desires and be humble enough to seek the help and forgiveness of those we may have hurt or forsaken.I know that Joseph Smith saw God, our Heavenly Father, and our Savior, Jesus Christ.
I testify that we have a living prophet upon the earth, President Thomas S. Monson.
I also testify that we will never be led astray if we heed the counsel of the prophet of God.
I testify of the power of our covenants and the blessings of the temple.I know that the Book of Mormon is true!
I cannot explain the power of this great book.
I only know that, coupled with prayer, the Book of Mormon carries the power to protect families, strengthen relationships, and give personal confidence before the Lord.
I testify of these things in the holy name of Jesus Christ, amen.
We love and miss President Thomas S. Monson, and we love and sustain President Russell M. Nelson.
President Nelson has a special place in my heart.When I was a young father, our little son, who was five, came home from school one day and asked his mother, “What kind of work does Daddy do?” He then explained that his new classmates started debating about their fathers’ jobs.
One said that his father was the chief of the city police, while another proudly declared that his father was the chief of a big company.So when asked about his father, my son simply said, “My father works in an office on a computer.” Then, noticing that his answer did not impress his new little friends much, he added, “And by the way, my father is the chief of the universe.”I guess that was the end of the conversation.I told my wife, “It’s time to teach him some more details of the plan of salvation and who is really in charge.”But as we taught our children the plan of salvation, their love for Heavenly Father and for the Savior grew as they learned that it is a plan of love.
The gospel of Jesus Christ is centered on the love of the Father and the Savior for us and our love for Them and for one another.Elder Jeffrey R. Holland said: “The first great commandment of all eternity is to love God with all of our heart, might, mind, and strength—that’s the first great commandment.
But the first great truth of all eternity is that God loves us with all of His heart, might, mind, and strength.
That love is the foundation stone of eternity, and it should be the foundation stone of our daily life.”1Being the foundation stone of our daily life, pure love is a requirement for every true disciple of Jesus Christ.The prophet Mormon taught, “Wherefore, my beloved brethren, pray unto the Father with all the energy of heart, that ye may be filled with this love, which he hath bestowed upon all who are true followers of his Son, Jesus Christ.”2Love indeed is the true sign of every true disciple of Jesus Christ.True disciples love to serve.
They know that serving is an expression of true love and a covenant they made at baptism.3 Regardless of their callings in the Church or their role in the community, they feel an increasing desire to love and serve the Lord and one another.True disciples love to forgive.
They know that the Atonement of the Savior covers all sins and mistakes of each one of us.
They know that the price He paid is an “all-inclusive price.” Spiritual taxes, fees, commissions, and charges related to sins, mistakes, or wrongdoings are all covered.
True disciples are quick to forgive and quick to ask for forgiveness.My dear brothers and sisters, if you are struggling to find the strength to forgive, don’t think of what others have done to you, but think of what the Savior has done for you, and you will find peace in the redemptive blessings of His Atonement.True disciples love to submit themselves to the Lord with peace in their heart.
They are humble and submissive because they love Him.
They have faith to fully accept His will, not only in what He does but also in how and when.
True disciples know that the real blessings are not always what they want but rather what the Lord wants for them.True disciples love the Lord more than the world and are steadfast and immovable in their faith.
They stay strong and firm in a changing and confusing world.
True disciples love to listen to the voice of the Spirit and of the prophets and are not confused by the voices of the world.
True disciples love to “stand in holy places”4 and love to make holy the places where they stand.
Wherever they go, they bring the love of the Lord and peace to the hearts of others.
True disciples love to obey the Lord’s commandments, and they obey because they love the Lord.
As they love and keep their covenants, their hearts are renewed and their very nature changes.Pure love is the true sign of every true disciple of Jesus Christ.I learned about pure love from my mother.
She was not a member of the Church.One day many years ago, I visited my mother, who was struggling with cancer.
I knew that she was going to die, but I was concerned that she was suffering.
I didn’t say anything, but knowing me well, she said, “I see that you are concerned.”Then to my surprise, she asked me with a feeble voice, “Can you teach me how to pray?
I want to pray for you.
I know you start by saying, ‘Dear Heavenly Father,’ but then what should I say?”As I knelt next to her bed and she prayed for me, I felt a love never felt before.
It was simple, true, pure love.
Although she didn’t know about the plan of salvation, she had in her heart her personal plan of love, the plan of love of a mother for her son.
She was in pain, struggling to even find the strength to pray.
I could barely hear her voice, but I surely felt her love.I remember thinking, “How can someone who is in such great pain pray for someone else?
She is the one in need.”Then the answer came clearly to my mind: pure love.
She loved me so much that she forgot about herself.
In her most critical hour, she loved me more than herself.Now, dear brothers and sisters, isn’t this what the Savior did?
Of course, in an eternal and much broader perspective.
But in the midst of His greatest pain, in the garden that night, He was the one who needed help, suffering in a way that we cannot even imagine or comprehend.
But in the end, He forgot about Himself and prayed for us until He paid the full price.
How was He able to do it?
Because of His pure love for the Father, who sent Him, and for us.
He loved the Father and us more than Himself.He paid for something that He had not done.
He paid for sins that He had not committed.
Why?
Pure love.
Having paid the full price, He was in the position to offer us the blessings of what He paid for if we would repent.
Why did He offer this?
Again, and always, pure love.Pure love is the true sign of every true disciple of Jesus Christ.President Thomas S. Monson said: “May we begin now, this very day, to express love to all of God’s children, whether they be our family members, our friends, mere acquaintances, or total strangers.
As we arise each morning, let us determine to respond with love and kindness to whatever might come our way.”5Brothers and sisters, the gospel of Jesus Christ is a gospel of love.
The greatest commandment is about love.
For me, it’s all about love.
The love of the Father, who sacrificed His Son for us.
The love of the Savior, who sacrificed all for us.
The love of a mother or a father who would give anything for his or her children.
The love of those who serve silently and are not known to most of us but are well known to the Lord.
The love of those who forgive all and always.
The love of the ones who give more than they receive.I love my Heavenly Father.
I love my Savior.
I love the gospel.
I love this Church.
I love my family.
I love this wonderful life.
For me, it’s all about love.May this day of remembrance of the Resurrection of the Savior be a day of spiritual renewal for each one of us.
May this day be the beginning of a life full of love, “the foundation stone of our daily life.”May our hearts be filled with the pure love of Christ, the true sign of every true disciple of Jesus Christ.
It is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
When I was nine years old, my white-haired, four-foot-eleven-inch (1.5 m) maternal grandmother came to spend a few weeks with us at our home.
One afternoon while she was there, my two older brothers and I decided to dig a hole in a field across the street from our house.
I don’t know why we did it; sometimes boys dig holes.
We got a little dirty but nothing that would get us into too much trouble.
Other boys in the neighborhood saw just how exciting it was to dig a hole and started to help.
Then we all got dirtier together.
The ground was hard, so we dragged a garden hose over and put a little water in the bottom of the hole to soften up the ground.
We got some mud on us as we dug, but the hole did get deeper.Someone in our group decided we should turn our hole into a swimming pool, so we filled it up with water.
Being the youngest and wanting to fit in, I was persuaded to jump in and try it out.
Now I was really dirty.
I didn’t start out planning to be covered in mud, but that’s where I ended up.When it started to get cold, I crossed the street, intending to walk into my house.
My grandmother met me at the front door and refused to let me in.
She told me that if she let me in, I would track mud into the house that she had just cleaned.
So I did what any nine-year-old would do under the circumstances and ran to the back door, but she was quicker than I thought.
I got mad, stomped my feet, and demanded to come into the house, but the door remained closed.I was wet, muddy, cold, and, in my childhood imagination, thought I might die in my own backyard.
Finally, I asked her what I had to do to come into the house.
Before I knew it, I found myself standing in the backyard while my grandmother sprayed me off with a hose.
After what seemed like an eternity, my grandmother pronounced me clean and let me come into the house.
It was warm in the house, and I was able to put on dry, clean clothes.With that real-life parable of sorts in mind, please consider the following words of Jesus Christ: “And no unclean thing can enter into his kingdom; therefore nothing entereth into his rest save it be those who have washed their garments in my blood, because of their faith, and the repentance of all their sins, and their faithfulness unto the end.”1Standing outside of my house being sprayed off by my grandmother was unpleasant and uncomfortable.
Being denied the opportunity to return and be with our Father in Heaven because we chose to remain in or dirtied by a mud hole of sin would be eternally tragic.
We should not deceive ourselves about what it takes to return and remain in the presence of our Father in Heaven.
We have to be clean.Before we came to this earth, we participated as spirit sons and daughters of God in a grand council.2 Each of us was paying attention, and none of us fell asleep.
In that council our Father in Heaven presented a plan.
Because the plan preserved our agency and required that we learn from our own experience and not just from His, He knew we would commit sin.
He also knew that sin would cause us to become unclean and unable to return to His presence, because where He lives is even cleaner than a house cleaned by my grandmother.Because our Father in Heaven loves us and has as His purpose “to bring to pass [our] immortality and eternal life,”3 His plan included the role of a Savior—someone who could help us become clean no matter how dirty we have become.
When our Father in Heaven announced the need for a Savior, I believe all of us turned and looked at Jesus Christ, the Firstborn in the Spirit, the one who had progressed to the point of becoming like the Father.4 I believe all of us knew it had to be Him, that none of the rest of us could do it, but that He could and that He would.In the Garden of Gethsemane and on the cross at Golgotha, Jesus Christ suffered both body and spirit, trembled because of pain, bled at every pore, pled with His Father to take away the bitter cup from Him,5 and yet He still partook.6 Why did He do it?
In His words, He wanted to glorify His Father and finish His “preparations unto the children of men.”7 He wanted to keep His covenant and make possible our return home.
What does He ask us to do in return?
He simply pleads with us to confess our sins and repent so that we will not have to suffer as He did.8 He invites us to become clean so that we are not left outside of our Father in Heaven’s house.Although avoidance of sin is the preferred pattern in life, as far as the efficacy of the Atonement of Jesus Christ is concerned, it matters not what sins we have committed or how deep we have sunk into that proverbial pit.
It matters not that we are ashamed or embarrassed because of the sins that, as the prophet Nephi said, “so easily beset” us.9 It matters not that once upon a time we traded our birthright for a mess of pottage.10What does matter is that Jesus Christ, the Son of God, suffered “pains and afflictions and temptations of every kind” so “that he may know according to the flesh how to succor his people.”11 What does matter is that He was willing to condescend,12 to come to this earth and descend “below all things”13 and suffer “more powerful contradictions than any man” ever could.14 What does matter is that Christ is pleading our case before the Father, “saying: Father, behold the sufferings and death of him who did no sin, in whom thou wast well pleased; … wherefore, Father, spare these my brethren that believe on my name, that they may come unto me and have everlasting life.”15 That is what really matters and what should give all of us renewed hope and a determination to try one more time, because He has not forgotten us.16I testify that the Savior will never turn away from us when we humbly seek Him in order to repent; will never consider us to be a lost cause; will never say, “Oh no, not you again”; will never reject us because of a failure to understand how hard it is to avoid sin.
He understands it all perfectly, including the sense of sorrow, shame, and frustration that is the inevitable consequence of sin.Repentance is real and it works.
It is not a fictional experience or the product “of a frenzied mind.”17 It has the power to lift burdens and replace them with hope.
It can lead to a mighty change of heart that results in our having “no more disposition to do evil, but to do good continually.”18 Repentance, of necessity, is not easy.
Things of eternal significance rarely are.
But the result is worth it.
As President Boyd K. Packer testified in his last address to the Seventy of the Church: “The thought is this: the Atonement leaves no tracks, no traces.
What it fixes is fixed.
… The Atonement leaves no traces, no tracks.
It just heals, and what it heals stays healed.”19And so it is that our hope to live again with the Father depends on the Atonement of Jesus Christ, upon the willingness of the one sinless Being to take upon Himself, notwithstanding the fact that justice had no claim on Him, the collective weight of the transgressions of all mankind, including those sins that some sons and daughters of God unnecessarily choose to suffer for on their own.As members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, we attribute greater power to the Savior’s Atonement than most other people because we know that if we make covenants, continually repent, and endure to the end, He will make us joint heirs with Him20 and, like Him, we will receive all that the Father hath.21 That is an earth-shattering doctrine, and yet it is true.
The Atonement of Jesus Christ makes the Savior’s invitation to “be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect”22 perfectly possible rather than frustratingly out of reach.The scriptures teach that every individual must “be judged according to the holy judgment of God.”23 On that day there will be no opportunity to hide among a larger group or point to others as an excuse for our being unclean.
Gratefully, the scriptures also teach that Jesus Christ, He who suffered for our sins, who is our Advocate with the Father, who calls us His friends, who loves us unto the end, He ultimately will be our judge.
One of the often overlooked blessings of the Atonement of Jesus Christ is that “the Father … hath committed all judgment unto the Son.”24Brothers and sisters, if you feel discouraged or wonder if you can ever get out of the spiritual hole that you have dug, please remember who stands “betwixt [us] and justice,” who is “filled with compassion towards the children of men,” and who has taken upon Himself our iniquities and transgressions and “satisfied the demands of justice.”25 In other words, as Nephi did in his moment of self-doubt, simply remember “in whom [you] have trusted,”26 even Jesus Christ, and then repent and experience yet again “a perfect brightness of hope.”27 In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
What joy it is to be gathered in this Conference Center with the girls, young women, and women of the Church.
We are also very aware that there are thousands of other groups of sisters, gathered throughout the world, watching these proceedings, and I’m grateful for the opportunity and means that allow us to join together in unity and purpose this evening.In October 2006, President Gordon B. Hinckley gave a talk entitled “Rise Up, O Men of God,” named after a hymn written in 1911.1 It was a call to action for the men of the Church to rise up and improve themselves.
That talk has echoed in my mind as I have prayed to know what to share with you.Sisters, we live in “perilous times.”2 The conditions of our day should not be a surprise to us.
They have been foretold for millennia as a warning and admonition so that we can be prepared.
The 8th chapter of Mormon gives a disconcertingly accurate description of the conditions of our day.
In this chapter, Moroni says he has seen our day, and it includes wars and rumors of wars, great pollutions, murders, robbing, and people who tell us that there is no right or wrong in God’s eyes.
He describes people who are filled with pride, caught up in the wearing of expensive clothing, and who make fun of religion.
He is shown people who are so obsessed with worldly things that they allow “the needy, and the naked, and the sick and the afflicted to pass by”3 without being noticed.Moroni asks a soul-searching question of us—we who are living in these times.
He says, “Why are ye ashamed to take upon you the name of Christ?”4 This indictment accurately describes the increasingly secular condition of our world.Joseph Smith—Matthew indicates that in the last days even the “very elect … according to the covenant”5 will be deceived.
Those of the covenant include the girls, young women, and sisters of the Church who have been baptized and made covenants with their Heavenly Father.
Even we are at risk of being deceived by false teachings.Sisters, I don’t believe that conditions are going to improve going forward.
If current trends are an indication, we need to be prepared for the storms that lie ahead.
It would be easy to throw our hands up in despair, but as covenant people we need never despair.
As Elder Gary E. Stevenson has said, “Heavenly Father’s generous compensation for living in perilous times is that we also live in the fulness of times.”6 I love the comfort of that statement.President Russell M. Nelson told us a year ago: “Attacks against the Church, its doctrine, and our way of life are going to increase.
Because of this, we need women who have a bedrock understanding of the doctrine of Christ and who will use that understanding to teach and help raise a sin-resistant generation.
We need women who can detect deception in all of its forms.
We need women who know how to access the power that God makes available to covenant keepers and who express their beliefs with confidence and charity.
We need women who have the courage and vision of our Mother Eve.”7This message reassures me that despite the conditions of our day, we have many reasons to rejoice and be optimistic.
I believe with all of my heart that we sisters do have the innate strength and faith that will allow us to meet the challenges of living in the last days.
Sister Sheri Dew has written, “I believe that the moment we learn to unleash the full influence of converted, covenant-keeping women, the kingdom of God will change overnight.”8It will take concerted effort to be converted and to keep our covenants.
To do so, we need to be girls and women who study the essential doctrines of the gospel and have an unshakable testimony of their truthfulness.
There are three areas I believe are foundational to strong testimonies and that I consider to be essential to our understanding.First, we need to acknowledge the centrality of God our Eternal Father and His Son, Jesus Christ, to our faith and salvation.
Jesus Christ is our Savior and Redeemer.
We need to study and understand His Atonement and how to apply it daily; repentance is one of the greatest blessings each of us has to stay on course.
We need to see Jesus Christ as our primary role model and the example of who we need to become.
We need to continually teach our families and classes about our Father’s great plan of salvation, which includes the doctrine of Christ.Second, we need to understand the need for the restoration of the doctrine, organization, and keys of authority in these latter days.
We need to have a witness that the Prophet Joseph Smith was divinely chosen and appointed by the Lord to bring about this restoration and recognize that he organized the women of the Church after the organization that existed in Christ’s Church anciently.9And third, we need to study and understand temple ordinances and covenants.
The temple holds a place at the very center of our most sacred beliefs, and the Lord asks that we attend, ponder, study, and find personal meaning and application individually.
We will come to understand that through the ordinances of the temple, the power of godliness is manifest in our lives10 and that because of temple ordinances, we can be armed with God’s power, and His name will be upon us, His glory round about us, and His angels have charge over us.11 I wonder if we are fully drawing upon the power of those promises.Sisters, even the very youngest in this audience can rise up in faith and play a significant role in building the kingdom of God.
Children begin gaining their own testimonies by reading or listening to the scriptures, praying daily, and partaking of the sacrament in a meaningful way.
All children and young women can encourage family home evenings and be full participants.
You can be the first one on your knees as your family gathers for family prayer.
Even if your homes are less than ideal, your personal examples of faithful gospel living can influence the lives of your family and friends.Young women of the Church need to see themselves as essential participants in the priesthood-directed work of salvation and not just as onlookers and supporters.
You hold callings and are set apart by those holding priesthood keys to function as leaders with power and authority in this work.
As you magnify your callings in class presidencies and prepare spiritually, counsel together, reach out to minister to your class members, and teach one another the gospel, you are taking your place in this work and both you and your peers will be blessed.All women need to see themselves as essential participants in the work of the priesthood.
Women in this Church are presidents, counselors, teachers, members of councils, sisters, and mothers, and the kingdom of God cannot function unless we rise up and fulfill our duties with faith.
Sometimes we just need to have a greater vision of what is possible.I recently met a sister in Mexico who understands what it means to magnify her calling with faith.
Marffissa Maldonado was called to teach a youth Sunday School class three years ago.
She had 7 students attending when she was called, but she now has 20 who attend regularly.
I asked her, in amazement, what she had done to bring about such an increase in numbers.
She modestly said, “Oh, it wasn’t just me.
All the class members helped.” Together, they saw the names of the less-actives on the roll and began to go out together and invite them to come back to church.
They have also had a baptism because of their efforts.Sister Maldonado set up a social media site just for her class members called “I Am a Child of God,” and she posts inspirational thoughts and scriptures several times a week.
She regularly texts her students with assignments and encouragement.
She feels it is important to communicate in the ways they best relate to, and it is working.
She told me simply, “I love my students.” I could feel that love as she told me of their efforts, and her example reminded me of what one person of faith and action can accomplish in this work with the help of the Lord.Our youth are being exposed to difficult questions on a daily basis, and many of us have loved ones who are struggling to find answers.
The good news is that there are answers to the questions being asked.
Listen to the recent messages from our leaders.
We are being urged to study and understand our Heavenly Father’s plan of happiness.
We have been reminded of the principles in the family proclamation.12 We are encouraged to teach and use these resources as the measuring sticks to keep us on the strait and narrow path.About a year ago, I visited with a mother of young children who decided to take a proactive approach to inoculating her children against the many negative influences they were being exposed to online and at school.
She chooses a topic each week, often one that has generated a lot of discussion online, and she initiates meaningful discussions during the week when her children can ask questions and she can make sure they’re getting a balanced and fair perspective on the often-difficult issues.
She is making her home a safe place to raise questions and have meaningful gospel instruction.I worry that we live in such an atmosphere of avoiding offense that we sometimes altogether avoid teaching correct principles.
We fail to teach our young women that preparing to be a mother is of utmost importance because we don’t want to offend those who aren’t married or those who can’t have children, or to be seen as stifling future choices.
On the other hand, we may also fail to emphasize the importance of education because we don’t want to send the message that it is more important than marriage.
We avoid declaring that our Heavenly Father defines marriage as being between a man and woman because we don’t want to offend those who experience same-sex attraction.
And we may find it uncomfortable to discuss gender issues or healthy sexuality.Certainly, sisters, we need to use sensitivity, but let us also use our common sense and our understanding of the plan of salvation to be bold and straightforward when it comes to teaching our children and youth the essential gospel principles they must understand to navigate the world in which they live.
If we don’t teach our children and youth true doctrine—and teach it clearly—the world will teach them Satan’s lies.I love the gospel of Jesus Christ, and I am eternally grateful for the direction, power, and daily help I receive as a covenant daughter of God.
I testify that the Lord has blessed us, as women who live in these perilous times, with all of the power, gifts, and strength that are needed in order to prepare the world for the Second Coming of the Lord Jesus Christ.
I pray that we may all see our true potential and rise up to become the women of faith and courage our Father in Heaven needs us to be.
In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
Brothers and sisters, President Nelson has asked that I handle the business of the solemn assembly for which we are gathered today.This is an occasion of great significance for members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints throughout the world.Dating from October 10, 1880, when John Taylor was sustained to succeed Brigham Young as prophet, seer, and revelator and President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, each of these occasions has been designated as a formal solemn assembly of the body of the Church to express the voice of the Church.We will vote by quorums and groups.
Wherever you are, you are invited to stand only when requested and express by your uplifted hand that you choose to sustain those whose names will be presented.
You should vote only when asked to stand.The General Authorities assigned to the Tabernacle and the Assembly Hall on Temple Square will observe the voting in those facilities.
In stake centers, a member of the stake presidency will observe the voting.
If anyone casts a contrary vote, those individuals should contact their respective stake presidents.We will now proceed.
Again, please stand and vote only when asked to do so.We ask members of the First Presidency to please arise.It is proposed that the First Presidency sustain Russell Marion Nelson as prophet, seer, and revelator and President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.Those of the First Presidency in favor, please manifest it.It is proposed that the First Presidency sustain Dallin Harris Oaks as First Counselor and Henry Bennion Eyring as Second Counselor in the First Presidency of the Church.Those members of the First Presidency in favor may manifest it.It is proposed that the First Presidency sustain Dallin Harris Oaks as President of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles and Melvin Russell Ballard as Acting President of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles.Members of the First Presidency in favor may manifest it.It is proposed that the First Presidency sustain as members of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles: M. Russell Ballard, Jeffrey R. Holland, Dieter F. Uchtdorf, David A. Bednar, Quentin L. Cook, D. Todd Christofferson, Neil L. Andersen, Ronald A. Rasband, Gary E. Stevenson, Dale G. Renlund, Gerrit Walter Gong, and Ulisses Soares.Members of the First Presidency, please manifest it.It is proposed that the First Presidency sustain the counselors in the First Presidency and the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles as prophets, seers, and revelators.Members of the First Presidency will please manifest it.The First Presidency will now be seated.We invite Elder Gong and Elder Soares to take their places with the Quorum of the Twelve.The members of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles only, including Elder Gong and Elder Soares, will please arise.It is proposed that the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles sustain Russell Marion Nelson as prophet, seer, and revelator and President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, together with his counselors and members of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles as they have been presented and voted upon by the First Presidency.Members of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles in favor, please manifest it.You may be seated.We ask the General Authority Seventies and members of the Presiding Bishopric to please arise.It is proposed that all General Authority Seventies and members of the Presiding Bishopric sustain Russell Marion Nelson as prophet, seer, and revelator and President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, together with his counselors and members of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles as they have been presented and voted upon by the First Presidency.All General Authority Seventies and members of the Presiding Bishopric who are in favor, please manifest it.You may be seated.We ask the following to please arise wherever you may be throughout the world: all Area Seventies, ordained patriarchs, high priests, and elders.It is proposed that Russell Marion Nelson be sustained as prophet, seer, and revelator and President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, together with his counselors and members of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles as they have been presented and voted upon.All in favor, please manifest it.Any opposed may so manifest it.Please be seated.Will all members of the Relief Society—that is, all women 18 years of age and older—please arise.It is proposed that Russell Marion Nelson be sustained as prophet, seer, and revelator and President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, together with his counselors and members of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles as previously presented and voted upon.All in favor, please indicate by the uplifted hand.Any opposed may so indicate.You may be seated.Will all those holding only the Aaronic Priesthood—that is, all ordained priests, teachers, and deacons—please arise.It is proposed that Russell Marion Nelson be sustained as prophet, seer, and revelator and President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, together with his counselors and members of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles as previously presented and voted upon.All in favor, please indicate by the uplifted hand.Any opposed may so indicate.You may be seated.Will the young women who are ages 12 to 18 please arise.It is proposed that Russell Marion Nelson be sustained as prophet, seer, and revelator and President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, together with his counselors and members of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles as previously presented and voted upon.All in favor, please indicate by the uplifted hand.Any opposed may so indicate.You may be seated.We now ask that the entire membership, wherever you are located, including all of those who have previously stood, please arise.It is proposed that Russell Marion Nelson be sustained as prophet, seer, and revelator and President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, together with his counselors and members of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles as they have been presented and voted upon.All in favor, please indicate by the uplifted hand.Any opposed may so indicate.You may all be seated.Thank you, brothers and sisters, for your love and support.
I greet you this morning—especially the young people who are both here in the Conference Center and throughout the world.
Yours is a chosen generation of destiny, and I speak especially to you.Many years ago while we were visiting our family in Florida, a tornado touched down not too far from us.
One woman living in a mobile home went into her bathroom for safety.
The mobile home began to shake.
A few moments passed.
Then she heard her neighbor’s voice: “I am here in the front room.” Coming out of the bathroom, to her great astonishment, she discovered that the tornado had lifted and carried her mobile home through the air, landing it perfectly upright on the top of her neighbor’s mobile home.My young friends, the world will not glide calmly toward the Second Coming of the Savior.
The scriptures declare that “all things shall be in commotion.”1 Brigham Young said, “It was revealed to me in the commencement of this Church, that the Church would spread, prosper, grow and extend, and that in proportion to the spread of the Gospel among the nations of the earth, so would the power of Satan rise.”2More concerning than the prophesied earthquakes and wars3 are the spiritual whirlwinds that can uproot you from your spiritual foundations and land your spirit in places you never imagined possible, sometimes with your barely noticing that you have been moved.The worst whirlwinds are the temptations of the adversary.
Sin has always been part of the world, but it has never been so accessible, insatiable, and acceptable.
There is, of course, a powerful force that will subdue the whirlwinds of sin.
It is called repentance.Not all the whirlwinds in life are of your own making.
Some come because of the wrong choices of others, and some come just because this is mortality.As a young boy, President Boyd K. Packer suffered from the crippling disease of polio.
When Elder Dallin H. Oaks was seven years old, his father died suddenly.
When Sister Carol F. McConkie of the Young Women general presidency was a teenager, her parents divorced.
Challenges will come to you, but as you trust in God, they will strengthen your faith.In nature, trees that grow up in a windy environment become stronger.
As winds whip around a young sapling, forces inside the tree do two things.
First, they stimulate the roots to grow faster and spread farther.
Second, the forces in the tree start creating cell structures that actually make the trunk and branches thicker and more flexible to the pressure of the wind.
These stronger roots and branches protect the tree from winds that are sure to return.4You are infinitely more precious to God than a tree.
You are His son or His daughter.
He made your spirit strong and capable of being resilient to the whirlwinds of life.
The whirlwinds in your youth, like the wind against a young tree, can increase your spiritual strength, preparing you for the years ahead.How do you prepare for your whirlwinds?
“Remember … it is upon the rock of our Redeemer, who is Christ, the Son of God, that ye must build your foundation; that when the devil shall send forth his mighty winds, … his shafts in the whirlwind, … when all his hail and his mighty storm shall beat upon you, it shall have no power … to drag you down … because of the rock upon which ye are built.”5 This is your safety in the whirlwind.President Thomas S. Monson has said, “Where once the standards of the Church and the standards of society were mostly compatible, now there is a wide chasm between us, and it’s growing ever wider.”6 This chasm, for some, stirs strong spiritual whirlwinds.
Let me share an example.This past month the First Presidency and the Quorum of the Twelve published a letter to leaders of the Church across the world.
In part it read: “Changes in the civil law do not, indeed cannot, change the moral law that God has established.
God expects us to uphold and keep His commandments regardless of divergent opinions or trends in society.
His law of chastity is clear: sexual relations are proper only between a man and a woman who are legally and lawfully wedded as husband and wife.
We urge you to review … the doctrine contained in ‘The Family: A Proclamation to the World.’”7As the world slips away from the Lord’s law of chastity, we do not.
President Monson said: “The Savior of mankind described Himself as being in the world but not of the world.
We also can be in the world but not of the world as we reject false concepts and false teachings and remain true to that which God has commanded.”8While many governments and well-meaning individuals have redefined marriage, the Lord has not.
In the very beginning, God initiated marriage between a man and a woman—Adam and Eve.
He designated the purposes of marriage to go far beyond the personal satisfaction and fulfillment of adults to, more importantly, advancing the ideal setting for children to be born, reared, and nurtured.
Families are the treasure of heaven.9Why do we continue to talk about this?
As Paul said, “We look not at the things which are seen, but at the things which are not seen.”10 As Apostles of the Lord Jesus Christ, we have the responsibility to teach our Creator’s plan for His children and to warn of the consequences of disregarding His commandments.Recently, I spoke with a Laurel from the United States.
I quote from her email:“This past year some of my friends on Facebook began posting their position on marriage.
Many favored same-sex marriage, and several LDS youth indicated they ‘liked’ the postings.
I made no comment.“I decided to declare my belief in traditional marriage in a thoughtful way.“With my profile picture, I added the caption ‘I believe in marriage between a man and a woman.’ Almost instantly I started receiving messages.
‘You are selfish.’ ‘You are judgmental.’ One compared me to a slave owner.
And I received this post from a great friend who is a strong member of the Church: ‘You need to catch up with the times.
Things are changing and so should you.’“I did not fight back,” she said, “but I did not take my statement down.”She concludes: “Sometimes, as President Monson said, ‘You have to stand alone.’ Hopefully as youth, we will stand together in being true to God and to the teachings of His living prophets.”11Of special concern to us should be those who struggle with same-sex attraction.
It is a whirlwind of enormous velocity.
I want to express my love and admiration for those who courageously confront this trial of faith and stay true to the commandments of God!12 But everyone, independent of his or her decisions and beliefs, deserves our kindness and consideration.13The Savior taught us to love not only our friends but also those who disagree with us—and even those who repudiate us.
He said: “For if ye love them which love you, what reward have ye?
… And if ye salute your brethren only, what do ye more than others?”14The Prophet Joseph Smith warned us to “beware of self-righteousness” and to enlarge our hearts toward all men and women until we feel “to take them upon our shoulders.”15 In the gospel of Jesus Christ, there is no place for ridicule, bullying, or bigotry.If you have a question about counsel from the leaders of the Church, please discuss your honest concerns with your parents and leaders.
You need the strength that comes from trusting the Lord’s prophets.
President Harold B. Lee said: “The only safety we have as members of this church is to … learn to give heed to the words and commandments that the Lord shall give through His prophet.
… There will be some things that take patience and faith.
You may not like what comes.
… It may contradict your political views … your social views … interfere with … your social life.
But if you listen to these things, as if from the mouth of the Lord Himself, … ‘the gates of hell shall not prevail against you … and the Lord God will disperse the powers of darkness from before you …’ (D&C 21:6).”16Another powerful protection from the whirlwinds of life is the Book of Mormon.When President Henry B. Eyring was a teenager, his family moved to a new city.
He initially found the move unpleasant and made few friends.
He felt like he didn’t fit in with the students in his high school.
The whirlwinds were swirling.
What did he do?
He threw his energy into the Book of Mormon, reading it many times.17 Years later, President Eyring testified: “I [love to] go back to the Book of Mormon and drink deeply and often.”18 “[It] is the most powerful written testimony we have that Jesus is the Christ.”19The Lord has given you another way to stand firm, a spiritual gift more powerful than the whirlwinds of the adversary!
He said, “Stand … in holy places, and be not moved.”20When I was a teenager, there were only 13 temples in the Church.
Now there are 142.
Eighty-five percent of Church members live within 200 miles (320 km) of a temple.
The Lord has given your generation greater access to His holy temples than any other generation in the history of the world.Have you ever stood in the temple, dressed in white, waiting to do baptisms?
How did you feel?
There is a tangible feeling of holiness in the temple.
The peace of the Savior subdues the swirling whirlwinds of the world.The way you feel in the temple is a pattern for how you want to feel in your life.21Find your grandfathers and grandmothers and your distant cousins who have gone before you.
Take their names to the temple with you.22 As you learn about your ancestors, you will see patterns of life, of marriage, of children; patterns of righteousness; and occasionally patterns that you will want to avoid.23Later in the temple you will learn more about the Creation of the world, about the patterns in the lives of Adam and Eve, and most importantly, about our Savior, Jesus Christ.My young brothers and sisters, how we love you, admire you, and pray for you.
Don’t let the whirlwinds drag you down.
These are your days—to stand strong as disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ.24Build more firmly your foundation upon the rock of your Redeemer.Treasure more completely His incomparable life and teachings.Follow more diligently His example and His commandments.Embrace more deeply His love, His mercy and grace, and the powerful gifts of His Atonement.As you do, I promise you that you will see the whirlwinds for what they are—tests, temptations, distractions, or challenges to help you grow.
And as you live righteously year after year, I assure you that your experiences will confirm to you again and again that Jesus is the Christ.
The spiritual rock under your feet will be solid and secure.
You will rejoice that God has placed you here to be a part of the final preparations for Christ’s glorious return.The Savior said, “I will not leave you comfortless: I will come to you.”25 This is His promise to you.
I know this promise is real.
I know that He lives, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
We are assembled this evening as a mighty body of the priesthood, both here in the Conference Center and in locations throughout the world.
Some hold the Aaronic Priesthood, while others bear the Melchizedek Priesthood.President Stephen L Richards, who served as a counselor to President David O. McKay, declared, “The Priesthood is usually simply defined as ‘the power of God delegated to man.’” He continues: “This definition, I think, is accurate.
But for practical purposes I like to define the Priesthood in terms of service and I frequently call it ‘the perfect plan of service.’ … It is an instrument of service … and the man who fails to use it is apt to lose it, for we are plainly told by revelation that he who neglects it ‘shall not be counted worthy to stand.’”1In the Pioneer Stake, located in Salt Lake City and where I received both the Aaronic and Melchizedek Priesthood, we were taught to become familiar with the scriptures, including sections 20, 84, and 107 of the Doctrine and Covenants.
In these sections we learn about priesthood and Church government.Tonight I wish to emphasize one verse from Section 107: “Wherefore, now let every man learn his duty, and to act in the office in which he is appointed, in all diligence.”2President Harold B. Lee frequently taught: “When one becomes a holder of the priesthood, he becomes an agent of the Lord.
He should think of his calling as though he were on the Lord’s errand.”3We also learn from these sections the duties of quorum presidencies and the fact that we are responsible for others besides ourselves.I firmly believe that the Church today is stronger than it has ever been.
Activity levels of our youth testify that this is a generation of faith and devotion to truth.
Yet there are some who drop by the wayside, who find other interests that persuade them to neglect their Church duties.
We must not lose such precious souls.There are growing numbers among the prospective elders who are not found in Church meetings nor filling Church assignments.
This situation can and must be remedied.
The task is ours.
Responsibility needs to be assigned and effort put forth without delay.The presidencies of the Aaronic Priesthood quorums, under the leadership of the bishopric and quorum advisers, can be empowered to reach out and rescue.Said the Lord, “Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God; … and how great is his joy in the soul that repenteth!”4Sometimes the task appears overwhelming.
We can take fresh courage from the experience of Gideon of old, who, with his modest force, was to do battle with the Midianites and the Amalekites.
You will remember how Gideon and his army faced an overwhelming strength of forces vastly superior in equipment and in number.
The book of Judges in the Old Testament records that the united enemy, the Midianites and the Amalekites, “lay along in the valley like grasshoppers for multitude; and their camels were without number, as the sand by the sea side for multitude.”5 Gideon went to Almighty God for his strength.To his surprise, Gideon was advised by the Lord that his forces were too many in number for the Lord to deliver the enemy into their hands, lest they say, “Mine own hand hath saved me.”6 Gideon was instructed to proclaim to his people: “Whosoever is fearful and afraid, let him return and depart … from mount Gilead.
And there returned of the people twenty and two thousand; and there remained ten thousand.”7Then the Lord said, “The people are yet too many.”8 He instructed Gideon to take the men to water to observe the manner in which they should drink of the water.
Those who lapped the water were placed in one group, and those who bowed down upon their knees to drink were placed in another.
The Lord said unto Gideon, “By the three hundred men that lapped will I save you, and deliver the Midianites into thine hand: and let all the other people go every man unto his place.”9Gideon returned to his forces and said to them, “Arise; for the Lord hath delivered into your hand the host of Midian.”10 And he divided the three hundred men into three companies, and he put a trumpet in every man’s hand, with empty pitchers and lamps within the pitchers.
And he said unto them:“Look on me, and do likewise: and, behold, when I come to the outside of the camp, it shall be that, as I do, so shall ye do.“When I blow with a trumpet, I and all that are with me, then blow ye the trumpets also on every side … and say, The sword of the Lord, and of Gideon.” He then said in effect, “Follow me.” His exact words were, “As I do, so shall ye do.”11At the leader’s signal, the host of Gideon did blow on the trumpets and did break the pitchers and did shout, “The sword of the Lord, and of Gideon.” The scripture records the outcome of this decisive battle: “And they stood every man in his place,” and the victory was won.12Home teaching is part of today’s plan to rescue.
When it was introduced by President David O. McKay to all of the General Authorities, he counseled: “Home teaching is one of our most urgent and most rewarding opportunities to nurture and inspire, to counsel and direct our Father’s children.
… [It] is a divine service, a divine call.
It is our duty as Home Teachers to carry the divine spirit into every home and heart.”13In certain areas where adequate Melchizedek Priesthood strength is missing, stake presidents and bishops, coordinating with the mission president, may use full-time missionaries to visit less-active and part-member families.
Not only does this rekindle the missionary spirit in the home, but it also provides an ideal opportunity for quality referrals to be obtained.Over the years as I have visited many stakes throughout the world, there have been those stakes where ward and stake leaders, out of necessity or in response to duty, stopped wringing their hands, rolled up their sleeves, and, with the Lord’s help, went to work and brought precious men to qualify for the Melchizedek Priesthood and, with their wives and children, to enter the holy temple for their endowments and sealings.In brief form I will mention several examples:On a visit to the Millcreek Stake in Salt Lake City some years ago, I learned that just over 100 brethren who were prospective elders had been ordained elders during the preceding year.
I asked President James Clegg the secret of his success.
Although he was too modest to take the credit, one of his counselors revealed that President Clegg, recognizing the challenge, had undertaken to personally call and arrange a private appointment between him and each prospective elder.
During the appointment, President Clegg would mention the temple of the Lord, the saving ordinances and covenants emphasized there, and would conclude with this question: “Wouldn’t you desire to take your sweet wife and your precious children to the house of the Lord, that you might be a forever family throughout the eternities?” An acknowledgment followed, the reactivation process was pursued, and the goal was achieved.In 1952 the majority of the families in the Rose Park Third Ward were members whose fathers or husbands held only the Aaronic Priesthood, rather than the Melchizedek Priesthood.
Brother L. Brent Goates was called to serve as the bishop.
He invited a less-active brother in the ward, Ernest Skinner, to assist in activating the 29 adult brethren in the ward who held the office of teacher in the Aaronic Priesthood and to help these men and their families get to the temple.
As a less-active member himself, Brother Skinner was reluctant at first but finally indicated he would do what he could.
He began personally visiting with the less-active adult teachers, trying to help them see their role as priesthood leaders in their homes and as husbands and fathers to their families.
He soon enlisted some of the less-active brethren to assist him in his assignment.
One by one they became fully active again and took their families to the temple.One day the ward clerk came out of a grocery checking line to greet the last of the group to go to the temple.
Commenting on his position as the last, the man said: “I stood by and watched as all of that group became active in our ward and went to the temple.
If only I had been able to imagine how beautiful it was in the temple, and how it would change my life forever, I never would have been the last of 29 to be sealed in the temple.”In each of these accounts, there were four elements which led them to success:The reactivation opportunity was pursued at the ward level.The bishop of the ward was involved.Qualified and inspired teachers were provided.Attention was given to each individual.Brethren, let us remember the counsel of King Benjamin: “When ye are in the service of your fellow beings ye are only in the service of your God.”14Let us reach out to rescue those who so need our help and lift them to the higher road and the better way.
Let us focus our thinking on the needs of priesthood holders and their wives and children who have slipped from the path of activity.
May we listen to the unspoken message from their hearts:Lead me, guide me, walk beside me,Help me find the way.Teach me all that I must doTo live with him someday.15The work of reactivation is no task for the idler or dreamer.
Children grow, parents age, and time waits for no man.
Don’t postpone a prompting; rather, act on it, and the Lord will open the way.Frequently the heavenly virtue of patience is required.
As a bishop I felt prompted one day to call on a man whose wife was somewhat active, as were the children.
This man, however, had never responded.
It was a hot summer’s day when I knocked on the screen door of Harold G. Gallacher.
I could see Brother Gallacher sitting in his chair reading the newspaper.
“Who is it?” he queried, without looking up.“Your bishop,” I replied.
“I’ve come to get acquainted and to urge your attendance with your family at our meetings.”“No, I’m too busy,” came the disdainful response.
He never looked up.
I thanked him for listening and departed the doorstep.The Gallacher family moved to California shortly thereafter.
The years went by.
Then, as a member of the Quorum of the Twelve, I was working in my office one day when my secretary called, saying: “A Brother Gallacher who once lived in your ward would like to talk to you.
He’s here in my office.”I responded, “Ask him if his name is Harold G. Gallacher who, with his family, lived at Vissing Place on West Temple and Fifth South.”She said, “He is the man.”I asked her to send him in.
We had a pleasant conversation together concerning his family.
He told me, “I’ve come to apologize for not getting out of my chair and letting you in the door that summer day long years ago.” I asked him if he was active in the Church.
With a wry smile, he replied: “I’m now second counselor in my ward bishopric.
Your invitation to come out to church, and my negative response, so haunted me that I determined to do something about it.”Harold and I visited together on numerous occasions before he passed away.
The Gallachers and their children filled many callings in the Church.
One of the youngest grandchildren is now serving a full-time mission.To the many missionaries who may be listening this evening, I share the observation that the seeds of testimony frequently do not immediately take root and flower.
Bread cast upon the water returns, at times, only after many days.
But it does return.I answered the ring of my telephone one evening to hear a voice ask, “Are you related to an Elder Monson who years ago served in the New England Mission?”I answered that such was not the case.
The caller introduced himself as a Brother Leonardo Gambardella and then mentioned that an Elder Monson and an Elder Bonner called at his home long ago and bore their testimonies to him and his wife.
They had listened but had done nothing further to apply their teachings.
Subsequently they moved to California, where, some 13 years later, they again found the truth and were converted and baptized.
Brother Gambardella then asked if there were any way he could reach the elders who first had visited with them, that he might express his profound gratitude for their testimonies, which had remained with him and his wife.I checked the records.
I located the elders.
Can you imagine their surprise when, now married with families of their own, I telephoned them and told them the good news—even the culmination of their early efforts.
They instantly remembered the Gambardellas.
I arranged a conference telephone call so they could personally extend their congratulations and welcome them into the Church.
They did.
There were tears, but they were tears of joy.Edwin Markham penned these lines:There is a destiny that makes us brothers;None goes his way alone:All that we send into the lives of othersComes back into our own.16Tonight I pray that all of us who hold the priesthood may sense our responsibilities, that we, like Gideon of old, may stand every man in his appointed place and, as one, follow our Leader—even the Lord Jesus Christ—and His prophet, President Gordon B. Hinckley.
May we reach out and rescue those who have fallen by the wayside, that not one precious soul will be lost.In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
For the information of the members of the Church, the First Presidency has issued the following statistical report regarding the growth and status of the Church as of December 31, 2013.Church UnitsStakes3,050Missions405Districts571Wards and Branches29,253Church MembershipTotal Membership15,082,028New Children of Record115,486Converts Baptized282,945MissionariesFull-Time Missionaries83,035Church-Service Missionaries24,032TemplesTemples Dedicated during 2013 (Tegucigalpa Honduras Temple)1Temples in Operation at Year End141
The First Presidency has issued the following statistical report regarding the growth and status of the Church as of December 31, 2014.Church UnitsStakes3,114Missions406Districts561Wards and Branches29,621Church MembershipTotal Membership15,372,337New Children of Record116,409Converts Baptized296,803MissionariesFull-Time Missionaries85,147Church-Service Missionaries30,404TemplesTemples Dedicated during 2014 (Fort Lauderdale Florida, Gilbert Arizona, and Phoenix Arizona)3Temples Rededicated (Ogden Utah)1Temples in Operation at Year End144
The First Presidency has issued the following statistical report of the Church as of December 31, 2015.Church UnitsStakes3,174Missions418Districts558Wards and Branches30,016Church MembershipTotal Membership15,634,199New Children of Record114,550Converts Baptized257,402MissionariesFull-Time Missionaries74,079Church-Service Missionaries31,779TemplesTemples Dedicated in 2015 (Córdoba Argentina, Payson Utah, Trujillo Peru, Indianapolis Indiana, and Tijuana Mexico)5Temples Rededicated (Mexico City Mexico and Montreal Quebec)2Temples in Operation at Year End149
The First Presidency has issued the following statistics concerning the status of the Church as of December 31, 2016.Church UnitsStakes3,266Missions421Districts556Wards and Branches30,304Church MembershipTotal Membership15,882,417New Children of Record109,246Converts Baptized240,131MissionariesFull-Time Missionaries70,946Church-Service Missionaries33,695TemplesTemples Dedicated in 2016 (Provo City Center, Sapporo Japan, Philadelphia Pennsylvania, Fort Collins Colorado, Star Valley Wyoming, and Hartford Connecticut)6Temples Rededicated (Suva Fiji and Freiberg Germany)2Temples in Operation at Year End155
Shortly before President Heber J.
Grant passed away, one of the Brethren visited his home.
Before he left, President Grant prayed, “O God, bless me that I shall not lose my testimony and keep faithful to the end!”1 After nearly 27 years as President of the Church, this was his fervent prayer.
His example is a striking reminder that no one, at any age, is immune from Satan’s influence.
Two of Satan’s most powerful tools are distraction and deception.Enduring to the end is a hallmark of true discipleship and is essential to eternal life.
But when trials and challenges come our way, we are often told to simply “hang in there.” Let me be clear: to “hang in there” is not a principle of the gospel.
Enduring to the end means constantly coming unto Christ and being perfected in Him.If enduring to the end is essential to eternal life, why do we struggle to be faithful?
We struggle when we are caught between competing priorities.
Casual obedience and lukewarm commitment weaken faith.
Enduring to the end requires total commitment to the Savior and to our covenants.Lehi’s vision of the tree of life is a powerful parable on enduring to the end.
Please prayerfully study and ponder Lehi’s dream; then liken it unto yourself.
As you do, carefully consider six important principles that help us endure to the end.1.
Don’t Forget to PrayWe begin with Lehi alone “in a dark and dreary waste.”2 Each of us experiences periods of darkness and loneliness.
“When life gets dark and dreary, don’t forget to pray.”3 Follow President Heber J. Grant’s example.
Pray for strength to endure to the end.
Ask Heavenly Father, “What more would You have me do?”2.
Come unto Christ and Be Perfected in HimThe tree of life is the central focus in Lehi’s dream.
Everything points to the tree of life.
The tree represents Christ, who is the clear manifestation of the love of God.
The fruit is His infinite Atonement and is great evidence of God’s love.
Eternal life with our loved ones is sweeter and more desirable than any other thing.
To realize this gift, we must “come unto Christ, and be perfected in him.”4 He is “the way, the truth, and the life.”5 We can fill our lives with accomplishment and well-doing, but in the end, if we do not enter into sacred covenants to follow Christ and faithfully keep them, we will have utterly and completely missed the mark.3.
Press Forward with FaithThere is a path that leads to the tree of life, to Christ.
It is strait and narrow, strict and exact.
God’s commandments are strict but not restrictive.
They protect us from spiritual and physical danger and prevent us from getting lost.Obedience builds faith in Christ.
Faith is a principle of action and power.
Consistently following the Savior’s example produces spiritual power and capacity.
Without the strengthening and enabling power of the Atonement, it’s impossible to stay on the path and endure.“Press forward with a steadfastness in Christ.”64.
The Book of Mormon Is Key to Spiritual SurvivalLife’s journey is challenging.
It’s easy to be distracted, wander off the path, and get lost.
Tribulation is an inevitable and indispensable part of our eternal progression.
When adversity comes, don’t let something you don’t fully understand unravel everything you do know.
Be patient, cling to truth; understanding will come.
Trials are like great mists of darkness that can blind our eyes and harden our hearts.
Unless we are “continually holding fast”7 to the word of God and living it, we will become spiritually blinded rather than spiritually minded.
Search the Book of Mormon and the words of the living prophets every day, every day, every day!
It’s the key to spiritual survival and avoiding deception.
Without it, we are spiritually lost.5.
Don’t Be Distracted and DeceivedTo heed is to give careful attention.
Heeding those who do not believe in Christ will not help you find Him.
Searching #spaciousbuilding for knowledge will not lead you to truth.
It’s not posted there.
Only the Savior has “the words of eternal life.”8 Everything else is just words.
The large and spacious building symbolizes the “vain imaginations and the pride”9 of the world—in other words, distraction and deception.
It’s filled with well-dressed people who seem to have everything.
But they mock the Savior and those who follow Him.
They are “ever learning, and never able to come to the knowledge of the truth.”10 They may be politically correct, but they are spiritually lost.6.
Stay by the TreeLehi’s message is to stay by the tree.
We stay because we are converted unto the Lord.
Alma taught, “Behold, he changed their hearts; yea, he awakened them out of a deep sleep, and they awoke unto God.”11 As we yield our hearts to God, the Holy Ghost changes our very natures, we become deeply converted unto the Lord, and we no longer seek the spacious building.
If we stop doing those things that bring about deepening conversion, we regress spiritually.
Apostasy is the reverse of conversion.To all missionaries past and present: Elders and sisters, you simply cannot return from your mission, do a swan dive back into Babylon, and spend endless hours scoring meaningless points on pointless video games without falling into a deep spiritual sleep.
Nor can you indulge in online pornography and ignore virtue and chastity without dire spiritual consequences.
If you lose the Spirit, you are lost.
Don’t be distracted and deceived.True disciples continue to awaken unto God each day in meaningful personal prayer, earnest scripture study, personal obedience, and selfless service.
Stay by the tree and stay awake.Several years ago, Sister Pearson and I were called to preside over the Washington Tacoma Mission.
The call was a complete surprise.
With some trepidation I met with the chairman and the CEO of the company where I was employed and informed them of my mission call.
They were visibly upset with my decision to leave the firm.
“When did you make this decision, and why didn’t you discuss it with us earlier?” they demanded.In a moment of clarity, a profound answer came into my mind.
I said, “I made this decision as a 19-year-old boy, when I made sacred covenants with God in the temple to follow the Savior.
I’ve built my entire life on those covenants, and I fully intend to keep them now.”Once we enter into covenants with God, there is no going back.
Giving in, giving up, and giving out are not options.
In the kingdom of God, there is a standard of excellence for exaltation.
It requires valiant discipleship!
There is no room for average or complacent disciples.
Average is the enemy of excellence, and average commitment will prevent you from enduring to the end.If you are struggling, confused, or spiritually lost, I urge you to do the one thing I know will get you back on track.
Begin again to prayerfully study the Book of Mormon and live its teachings every day, every day, every day!
I testify of the profound power in the Book of Mormon that will change your life and strengthen your resolve to follow Christ.
The Holy Ghost will change your heart and help you see “things as they really are.”12 He will show you what you need to do next.
This is Nephi’s promise to you:“And I said unto them … whoso would hearken unto the word of God, and would hold fast unto it, they would never perish; neither could the temptations and the fiery darts of the adversary overpower them unto blindness, to lead them away to destruction.“Wherefore, I … did exhort them … that they would give heed to the word of God and remember to keep his commandments always in all things.”13Brothers and sisters, enduring to the end is the great test of discipleship.
Our daily discipleship will determine our eternal destiny.
Awaken unto God, cling to truth, keep your sacred temple covenants, and stay by the tree!I bear witness of the resurrected, living Christ.
I know that He lives.
My greatest desire is that I will be true and faithful to the very end in following His magnificent example.
In the sacred name of the Lord Jesus Christ, amen.
Years ago, while I was serving as a seminary teacher, I heard one of my coworkers ask his students to reflect on the following question: If you had lived in the Savior’s day, why do you think that you would have followed Him as one of His disciples?
They reached the conclusion that those who follow the Savior in the present day and strive to be His disciples would probably also have done so back then.Since then, I have reflected on that question and their conclusion.
I often wonder how I would have felt hearing the Savior Himself when He said the following in the Sermon on the Mount:“Ye are the light of the world.
A city that is set on an hill cannot be hid.“Neither do men light a candle, and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick; and it giveth light unto all that are in the house.“Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven” (Matthew 5:14–16).Can you imagine how you would have felt hearing the Savior’s voice?
In fact, we do not have to imagine.
It has become a constant experience for us to hear the voice of the Lord because when we hear the voice of His servants, it is the same.In 1838, in a message similar to that given in the Sermon on the Mount, the Lord declared the following through the Prophet Joseph Smith:“For thus shall my church be called in the last days, even The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.“Verily I say unto you all: Arise and shine forth, that thy light may be a standard for the nations” (D&C 115:4–5).Our days are so extraordinary that they were even shown in a vision to the prophet Isaiah; he too saw and prophesied of this day of the Restoration of the Church of Jesus Christ and of its purpose, saying, “And he shall set up an ensign for the nations, and shall assemble the outcasts of Israel, and gather together the dispersed of Judah from the four corners of the earth” (Isaiah 11:12).In a scriptural context an ensign, or a standard, is a flag around which people would gather in a unity of purpose.
In ancient times a standard served as a rallying point for soldiers in battle.
Symbolically speaking, the Book of Mormon and the restored Church of Jesus Christ are standards to all nations.
(See Guide to the Scriptures, “Ensign,” scriptures.lds.org.
)Without a doubt, one of the great standards of these latter days is this magnificent general conference, where the great work and plan of our Heavenly Father “to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man” (Moses 1:39) is continually proclaimed.The continual holding of general conference is one of the greatest testimonies to the fact that we as Latter-day Saints “believe all that God has revealed, all that He does now reveal, and we believe that He will yet reveal many great and important things pertaining to the Kingdom of God” (Articles of Faith 1:9).What, then, has the Lord revealed through President Thomas S. Monson that we need to continue doing so our light can be a standard for the nations?
What are some of the important things to be done in this brilliant moment of building up Zion and of gathering Israel?The Lord has always revealed His will to us “line upon line, precept upon precept, here a little and there a little” (2 Nephi 28:30).
Therefore, we should not be surprised by what may seem like small things because of their simple and repetitive nature, for the Lord has already counseled us, telling us that “blessed are those who hearken unto my precepts, and lend an ear unto my counsel, for they shall learn wisdom; for unto him that receiveth I will give more” (2 Nephi 28:30).I testify that by learning “line upon line, precept upon precept, here a little and there a little” and by hearkening to our leaders’ counsel, we will have oil for our lamps that will enable us to give light unto others as the Lord commanded us.While there are many things we can do to be a light and an ensign to others, I would like to focus on the following three: observing the Sabbath day, hastening the work of salvation on both sides of the veil, and teaching in the Savior’s way.The light that we are talking about comes from the devotion that we give to Sabbath day observance, in the Church as well as in the home; it is the light that grows as we keep ourselves unspotted from the world; it is the light that comes from offering up our sacraments on His holy day and from paying our devotions to the Most High—all of which enable us to always have His Spirit with us.
It is that light that grows and becomes visible when we return home with the feeling of forgiveness that President Henry B. Eyring spoke about in this past October general conference when he said: “Of all the blessings we can count, the greatest by far is the feeling of forgiveness that comes as we partake of the sacrament.
We will feel greater love and appreciation for the Savior, whose infinite sacrifice made possible our being cleansed from sin” (“Gratitude on the Sabbath Day,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2016, 100).As we keep the Sabbath day holy and partake of the sacrament, we are not only cleansed, but our light also grows brighter.Our light also grows as we dedicate and consecrate time to finding the names of our ancestors, taking their names to the temple, and teaching our family and others to do the same.This sacred temple and family history work that we share with the Saints on both sides of the veil is moving forward more than ever as the Lord’s temples are being built.
Now that the temples have special schedules for family groups who come with their own family name cards, my wife and I have had delightful experiences as we have served in the temple together with our children and our grandchildren.When we find and take names to the temple and teach others how to as well, together we shine as an ensign or standard.Learning to teach as the Savior taught is another way we can rise and shine.
I rejoice along with everyone who is learning how to teach in the Savior’s way.
Allow me to read from the cover of the new teaching manual: “The goal of every gospel teacher—every parent, every formally called teacher, every home teacher and visiting teacher, and every follower of Christ—is to teach the pure doctrine of the gospel, by the Spirit, … to help God’s children build their faith in the Savior and become more like Him” (Teaching in the Savior’s Way [2016]).Right now, thousands of our faithful teachers hold up a light as they learn how to teach in the Savior’s way.
In this context the new teacher council meeting is a way to rise and shine as the students meet around the standard of the doctrine of Christ, for “the key to teaching as the Savior taught is to live as the Savior lived” (Teaching in the Savior’s Way, 4).As we all teach and learn in His way and become more like Him, our light shines brighter and cannot be hid and becomes a standard to those who are looking for the Savior’s light.My dear brothers and sisters, we should not and must not hide our light.
Our Savior commanded us to let our light shine like a city on a hill or like a light from a candlestick.
As we do so, we will glorify our Father in Heaven.
The Savior’s gospel and His restored Church give us many opportunities for our light to be a part of the great standard for the nations.I testify that Jesus Christ is the light that we must reflect, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
His VisitOne of the most remarkable and tender experiences recorded in holy scripture is the account of the visit of the Savior to people in the Americas following His death and Resurrection.
The people had suffered a destruction so great that it caused “the whole earth [to become] deformed.”1 The record of those events relates that following the catastrophe, all the people wept continually,2 and in the midst of their deep grief, they hungered for healing, peace, and deliverance.When the Savior descended from heaven, the people twice fell at His feet.
The first time occurred after He pronounced, with divine authority:“Behold, I am Jesus Christ, whom the prophets testified shall come into the world.“And behold, I am the light and the life of the world.”3He then invited those present to “arise and come forth unto me, that ye may thrust your hands into my side, and also that ye may feel the prints of the nails in my hands and in my feet, that ye may know that I am the God of Israel, and the God of the whole earth, and have been slain for the sins of the world.
…“And when they had all gone forth and had witnessed for themselves, they did cry out with one accord, saying:“Hosanna!
Blessed be the name of the Most High God!”4And then, for a second time, “they did fall down at the feet of Jesus.” But this time with purpose, for we learn that they “did worship him.”5Present DayEarlier this year I was on assignment visiting a stake in the western United States.
It was a normal Sunday, a normal meeting, with normal members of the Church.
I watched as people entered the chapel and reverently moved to available seats.
Last-second, whispered conversations echoed throughout the hall.
Mothers and fathers tried—sometimes in vain—to quiet energetic children.
Normal.But then, before the meeting began, words inspired of the Spirit came into my mind.These members had not come just to fulfill a duty or listen to speakers.They had come for a deeper and far more significant reason.They had come to worship.As the meeting progressed, I observed various members in the congregation.
They had an almost heavenly expression, an attitude of reverence and peace.
Something about them warmed my heart.
The experience they were having that Sunday was something quite extraordinary.They were worshipping.They were experiencing heaven.I could see it in their countenances.And I rejoiced and worshipped with them.
And as I did so, the Spirit spoke to my heart.
And on that day, I learned something about myself, about God, and about the role of true worship in our lives.Worship in Our Everyday LivesLatter-day Saints are exceptional when it comes to serving in Church callings.
But sometimes we may go about our work routinely, as though we are merely performing a job.
Sometimes our attendance at meetings and our service in the kingdom may lack the holy element of worship.
And without that, we are missing an incomparable spiritual encounter with the infinite—one we are entitled to as children of a loving Heavenly Father.Far from being an accidental, happy occurrence, worship is essential and central to our spiritual life.
It is something we should yearn for, seek out, and strive to experience.What Is Worship?When we worship God, we approach Him with reverent love, humility, and adoration.
We acknowledge and accept Him as our sovereign King, the Creator of the universe, our beloved and infinitely loving Father.We respect and revere Him.We submit ourselves to Him.We lift our hearts in mighty prayer, cherish His word, rejoice in His grace, and commit to follow Him with dedicated loyalty.Worshipping God is such an essential element in the life of a disciple of Jesus Christ that if we fail to receive Him in our hearts, we will seek for Him in vain in our councils, churches, and temples.True disciples are drawn to “worship him that made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and the fountains of waters—calling upon the name of the Lord day and night.”6We can learn much about true worship by examining how others—people who perhaps were not so different from ourselves—encountered, behaved, and worshipped in the presence of the divine.Wonder, Gratitude, and HopeIn the first part of the 19th century, the Christian world had all but abandoned the idea that God still spoke to man.
But in the spring of 1820, that changed forever when a humble farm boy entered a grove of trees and knelt to pray.
From that day on, a stream of remarkable visions, revelations, and heavenly appearances have bathed the earth, endowing its inhabitants with precious knowledge regarding the nature and purpose of God and His relationship with man.Oliver Cowdery described those days as “never to be forgotten.
… What joy!
what wonder!
what amazement!”7Oliver’s words convey the first elements that accompany true worship of the divine—a sense of majestic awe and profound thanksgiving.Every day, but especially on the Sabbath day, we have the extraordinary opportunity to experience the wonder and awe of heaven and offer our praises to God for His blessed goodness and overwhelming mercy.This will lead us to hope.
These are the first elements of worship.Light, Knowledge, and FaithOn the blessed day of Pentecost, the Holy Spirit entered into the hearts and minds of the disciples of Christ, filling them with light and knowledge.Until that day they were at times unsure of what they should do.
Jerusalem had become a dangerous place for a follower of the Savior, and they must have wondered what would become of them.But when the Holy Spirit filled their hearts, doubt and reluctance vanished.
Through the transcendent experience of true worship, the Saints of God received heavenly light, knowledge, and a strengthened testimony.
And that led to faith.From that moment on, the Apostles and Saints acted with determined direction.
With boldness they preached Christ Jesus to all the world.When we worship in spirit, we invite light and truth into our souls, which strengthens our faith.
These too are necessary elements of true worship.Discipleship and CharityIn the Book of Mormon we learn that from the moment Alma the Younger was delivered from suffering the consequences of his own rebelliousness, he was never the same.
He boldly “traveled throughout all the land … and among all the people … , zealously striving to repair all the injuries which [he] had done to the church.”8His constant worship of the Almighty God took the form of energetic discipleship.True worship transforms us into sincere and earnest disciples of our beloved Master and Savior, Jesus Christ.
We change and become more like Him.We become more understanding and caring.
More forgiving.
More loving.We understand that it is impossible to say that we love God while at the same time hating, dismissing, or disregarding others around us.9True worship leads to an unwavering determination to walk the path of discipleship.
And that leads inevitably to charity.
These too are necessary elements of worship.Enter into His Gates with ThanksgivingWhen I reflect back on what began as a normal Sunday morning, in that normal meetinghouse, in that normal stake, even today I am moved by that extraordinary spiritual experience that will forever bless my life.I learned that even if we are exceptional managers of our time, callings, and assignments—even if we check all the boxes on our list of the “perfect” individual, family, or leader—if we fail to worship our merciful Deliverer, heavenly King, and glorious God, we are missing much of the joy and peace of the gospel.When we worship God, we acknowledge and receive Him with the same reverence as those ancient people of the Americas.
We approach Him with incomprehensible feelings of wonder and awe.
We marvel in gratitude at the goodness of God.
And thus, we acquire hope.We ponder God’s word, and that fills our souls with light and truth.
We comprehend spiritual vistas that can be seen only through the light of the Holy Ghost.10 And thus, we acquire faith.As we worship, our souls are refined and we commit to walk in the footsteps of our beloved Savior, Jesus Christ.
And from this resolve, we acquire charity.When we worship, our hearts are drawn out in praise to our blessed God morning, noon, and night.We hallow and honor Him continually—in our meetinghouses, homes, temples, and all our labors.When we worship, we open our hearts to the healing power of the Atonement of Jesus Christ.Our lives become the token and expression of our worship.My brothers and sisters, spiritual experiences have less to do with what is happening around us and everything to do with what is happening within our hearts.
It is my witness that true worship will transform ordinary Church meetings into extraordinary spiritual feasts.
It will enrich our lives, broaden our understanding, and strengthen our testimonies.
For as we incline our hearts to God, like the ancient Psalmist, we “enter into his gates with thanksgiving, and into his courts with praise: [we are] thankful unto him, and bless his name.“For the Lord is good; his mercy is everlasting; and his truth endureth to all generations.”11Through sincere and heartfelt worship, we blossom and mature in hope, faith, and charity.
And through that process, we gather heavenly light into our souls that infuses our lives with divine meaning, abiding peace, and everlasting joy.That is the blessing of worship in our lives.
Of this I humbly testify in the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.
Jesus’s visit to the Nephites after His Resurrection was carefully organized to teach us the things of greatest importance.
It began with the Father testifying to the people that Jesus was His “Beloved Son, in whom [He was] well pleased.”1 Then Jesus Himself descended and testified of His atoning sacrifice,2 inviting the people to “know of a surety” that He was the Christ by coming forth and feeling the wound mark in His side and the prints of the nails in His hands and feet.3 These testimonies established without doubt that Jesus’s Atonement was complete and that the Father had fulfilled His covenant to provide a Savior.
Jesus then taught the Nephites how to obtain all the blessings of the Father’s plan of happiness, which are made available to us because of the Savior’s Atonement, by teaching them the doctrine of Christ.4My message today focuses on the doctrine of Christ.
The scriptures define the doctrine of Christ as exercising faith in Jesus Christ and His Atonement, repenting, being baptized, receiving the gift of the Holy Ghost, and enduring to the end.5The Doctrine of Christ Allows Us to Obtain the Blessings of Christ’s AtonementThe Atonement of Christ creates the conditions upon which we may rely upon “the merits, and mercy, and grace of the Holy Messiah,”6 “be perfected in [Christ],”7 obtain every good thing,8 and gain eternal life.9The doctrine of Christ on the other hand is the means—the only means—by which we can obtain all of the blessings made available to us through Jesus’s Atonement.
It is the doctrine of Christ that allows us to access the spiritual power that will lift us from our current spiritual state to a state where we can become perfected like the Savior.10 Of this process of rebirth, Elder D. Todd Christofferson has taught: “Being born again, unlike our physical birth, is more a process than an event.
And engaging in that process is the central purpose of mortality.”11Let’s explore each element of the doctrine of Christ.First, faith in Jesus Christ and His Atonement.
The prophets have taught that faith begins by hearing the word of Christ.12 The words of Christ testify of His atoning sacrifice and tell us how we may obtain forgiveness, blessings, and exaltation.13Upon hearing the words of Christ, we exercise faith by choosing to follow the teachings and example of the Savior.14 To do this, Nephi taught that we must rely “wholly upon the merits of [Christ,] who is mighty to save.”15 Because Jesus was a God in the premortal existence,16 lived a sinless life,17 and during His Atonement satisfied all the demands of justice for you and me,18 He has the power and keys to bring about the resurrection of all men,19 and He made it possible for mercy to overpower justice upon conditions of repentance.20 Once we understand that we can obtain mercy through Christ’s merits, we are able to “have faith unto repentance.”21 To rely wholly upon Christ’s merits then is to trust that He did what was necessary to save us and then to act upon our belief.22Faith also causes us to stop worrying so much about what others think of us and begin to care far more about what God thinks of us.Second, repentance.
Samuel the Lamanite taught, “If ye believe on [Christ’s] name ye will repent of all your sins.”23 Repentance is a precious gift from our Heavenly Father that is made possible through the sacrifice of His Only Begotten Son.
It is the process that the Father has given us by which we change, or turn, our thoughts, actions, and our very being so that we become more and more like the Savior.24 It is not just for big sins but is a daily process of self-evaluation and improvement25 that helps us to overcome our sins, our imperfections, our weaknesses, and our inadequacies.26 Repentance causes us to become “true followers” of Christ, which fills us with love27 and casts out our fears.28 Repentance is not a backup plan just in case our plan to live perfectly fails.29 Continual repentance is the only path that can bring us lasting joy and enable us to return to live with our Heavenly Father.Through repentance we become submissive and obedient to God’s will.
Now, this is not done alone.
A recognition of God’s goodness and our nothingness,30 combined with our best efforts to align our behavior with God’s will,31 brings grace into our lives.32 Grace “is divine means of help or strength, given through the bounteous mercy and love of Jesus Christ … to do good works that [we] otherwise would not be able to maintain if left to [our] own means.”33 Because repentance is really about becoming like the Savior, which is impossible on our own, we desperately need the Savior’s grace in order to make necessary changes in our lives.As we repent, we replace our old, unrighteous behaviors, weaknesses, imperfections, and fears with new behaviors and beliefs that draw us closer to the Savior and help us to become like Him.Third, baptism and the sacrament.
The prophet Mormon taught that “the first fruits of repentance is baptism.”34 To be complete, repentance must be combined with the ordinance of baptism administered by someone who holds the priesthood authority of God.
For members of the Church, the covenants made at baptism and other occasions are renewed as we partake of the sacrament.35In the ordinances of baptism and the sacrament, we covenant to keep the commandments of the Father and the Son, always remember Christ, and be willing to take Christ’s name (or His work and attributes36) upon us.37 The Savior, in return, covenants to forgive, or remit, our sins38 and “pour out his Spirit more abundantly upon [us].”39 Christ also promises to prepare us for eternal life by helping us become like Him.40Douglas D. Holmes, First Counselor in the Young Men General Presidency, has written: “The ordinances of baptism and the sacrament symbolize both the end result and process of being born again.
In baptism, we bury the old man of flesh and come forth to a newness of life.41 In the sacrament, we learn that this change is a step-by-step process, [where] little by little, week by week, we are transformed as we repent, covenant, and through increased endowments of the Spirit [become like the Savior].”42Ordinances and covenants are essential within the doctrine of Christ.
It is through worthily receiving the ordinances of the priesthood and keeping the associated covenants that the power of godliness is manifest in our lives.43 Elder D. Todd Christofferson explained that “this ‘power of godliness’ comes in the person and by the influence of the Holy Ghost.”44Fourth, the gift of the Holy Ghost.
After baptism we are given the gift of the Holy Ghost through the ordinance of confirmation.45 This gift, if we receive it, allows us to have the constant companionship of a God46 and continual access to the grace that inherently comes with His influence.As our constant companion, the Holy Ghost gives us additional power or strength to keep our covenants.47 He also sanctifies us,48 which means to make us “free from sin, pure, clean, and holy through the atonement of Jesus Christ.”49 The process of sanctification not only cleanses us, but it also endows us with needed spiritual gifts or divine attributes of the Savior50 and changes our very nature,51 such “that we have no more disposition to do evil.”52 Each time we receive the Holy Ghost into our lives through faith, repentance, ordinances, Christlike service, and other righteous endeavors, we are changed until step by step, little by little we become like Christ.53Fifth, enduring to the end.
The prophet Nephi taught that after receiving the gift of the Holy Ghost, we must “endure to the end, in following the example of the Son of the living God.”54 Elder Dale G. Renlund described the process of enduring to the end as follows: “We may be perfected by repeatedly and iteratively … exercising faith in [Christ], repenting, partaking of the sacrament to renew the covenants and blessings of baptism, and receiving the Holy Ghost as a constant companion to a greater degree.
As we do so, we become more like Christ and are able to endure to the end, with all that that entails.”55In other words, the reception of the Holy Ghost and the change that reception creates in us further builds our faith.
Increased faith leads to additional repentance.
As we then symbolically sacrifice our hearts and our sins upon the sacrament altar, we receive the Holy Ghost to a greater degree.
Receiving the Holy Ghost to a greater degree further moves us along the path of being born again.
As we continue in this process and obtain all the saving ordinances and covenants of the gospel, we receive “grace for grace” until we receive a fulness.56We Must Apply the Doctrine of Christ in Our LivesBrothers and sisters, as we apply the doctrine of Christ in our lives, we are blessed both temporally and spiritually, even in trials.
Eventually we are able to “lay hold upon every good thing.”57 I testify that this process has happened and continues to happen in my own life, step by step, little by little.But more importantly, we must apply the doctrine of Christ in our lives because it provides the only path back to our Heavenly Father.
It is the only way to receive the Savior and become His sons and daughters.58 In fact, the only way to be redeemed from sin and progress spiritually is to apply the doctrine of Christ in our lives.59 Alternatively, the Apostle John taught that “whosoever … abideth not in the doctrine of Christ, hath not God.”60 And Jesus Himself told the Nephite Twelve that if we fail to exercise faith in Christ, repent, be baptized, and endure to the end, we will be “hewn down and cast into the fire, from whence [we] can no more return.”61So how can we apply the doctrine of Christ more fully in our lives?
One way would be to make a conscious effort each week to prepare for the sacrament by taking some time to prayerfully consider where we most need to improve.
We could then bring a sacrifice of at least one thing that keeps us from being like Jesus Christ to the sacrament altar, pleading in faith for help, asking for necessary spiritual gifts, and covenanting to improve during the coming week.62 As we do so, the Holy Ghost will come into our lives to a greater degree, and we will have additional strength to overcome our imperfections.I testify that Jesus Christ is the Savior of the world and that His is the only name by which we can be saved.63 All things that are good are made available only through Him.64 But to actually “lay hold upon every good thing,”65 including eternal life, we must continually apply the doctrine of Christ in our lives.
In the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.
For her entire life, my wife, Melinda, has tried with all her heart to be a faithful disciple of Jesus Christ.
Yet, beginning in her youth, she felt unworthy of Heavenly Father’s love and blessings because she misunderstood His nature.
Fortunately, Melinda continued to keep the commandments in spite of the sadness she felt.
A few years ago, she had a series of experiences that helped her better understand God’s nature, including His love for His children and His gratitude for our even-imperfect efforts to do His work.She explains how this has influenced her: “I now feel sure that the Father’s plan works, that He is personally invested in our success, and that He provides us with the lessons and experiences we need to return to His presence.
I see myself and others more as God sees us.
I am able to parent, teach, and serve with more love and less fear.
I feel peace and confidence rather than anxiety and insecurity.
Instead of feeling judged, I feel supported.
My faith is more certain.
I feel my Father’s love more often and more deeply.”1Having “a correct idea of [Heavenly Father’s] character, perfections, and attributes” is essential to exercising faith sufficient to obtain exaltation.2 A correct understanding of Heavenly Father’s character can change how we see ourselves and others and help us to understand God’s tremendous love for His children and His great desire to help us become like Him.
An incorrect view of His nature can leave us feeling as if we are incapable of ever making it back to His presence.My objective today is to teach key doctrinal points about the Father that will allow each of us, but especially those who wonder if God loves them, to better understand His true character and to exercise greater faith in Him, His Son, and His plan for us.The Premortal LifeIn the premortal world, we were born as spirits to Heavenly Parents and lived with Them as a family.3 They knew us, taught us, and loved us.4 We wanted very much to be like our Heavenly Father.
However, to do so, we recognized that we would have to:Obtain glorified, immortal, physical bodies;5Be married and form families by the sealing power of the priesthood;6 andAcquire all knowledge, power, and divine attributes.7Consequently, the Father created a plan that would allow us, upon certain conditions,8 to obtain physical bodies that would become immortal and glorified in the Resurrection; marry and form families in mortality or, for the faithful who did not have this opportunity, after mortality;9 progress toward perfection; and ultimately return to our Heavenly Parents and live with Them and our families in a state of exaltation and eternal happiness.10The scriptures call this the plan of salvation.11 We were so grateful for this plan that when it was presented to us, we shouted for joy.12 Each of us accepted the conditions of the plan, including the experiences and challenges of mortality that would help us develop divine attributes.13Mortal LifeDuring mortality, Heavenly Father provides us with the conditions we need to progress within His plan.
The Father begot Jesus Christ in the flesh14 and provided Him with divine help to fulfill His mortal mission.
Heavenly Father will likewise help each of us if we will strive to keep His commandments.15 The Father gives us agency.16 Our lives are in His hands, and our “days are known” and “shall not be numbered less.”17 And He ensures that eventually all things work for the good of those who love Him.18It is Heavenly Father who gives us our daily bread,19 which includes both the food we eat and the strength we need to keep His commandments.20 The Father gives good gifts.21 He hears and answers our prayers.22 Heavenly Father delivers us from evil when we let Him.23 He weeps for us when we suffer.24 Ultimately, all of our blessings come from the Father.25Heavenly Father guides us and gives us the experiences we need based on our strengths, weaknesses, and choices so that we might bear good fruit.26 The Father chastens us when necessary because He loves us.27 He is a “Man of Counsel,”28 who will counsel with us if we ask.29It is Heavenly Father who sends both the influence and the gift of the Holy Ghost into our lives.30 Through the gift of the Holy Ghost, the glory—or intelligence, light, and power—of the Father can dwell in us.31 If we will strive to increase in light and truth until our eyes become single to God’s glory, Heavenly Father will send the Holy Spirit of Promise to seal us up unto eternal life and reveal His face unto us—either in this life or the next.32Postmortal LifeIn the postmortal spirit world, Heavenly Father continues to shed forth the Holy Ghost and send missionaries to those who need the gospel.
He answers prayers and helps those who lack them receive vicarious saving ordinances.33The Father raised up Jesus Christ and gave Him power to bring to pass the Resurrection,34 which is the means by which we obtain immortal bodies.
The Savior’s Redemption and Resurrection bring us back into the presence of the Father, where we will be judged by Jesus Christ.35Those who rely upon “the merits, and mercy, and grace of the Holy Messiah”36 will receive glorified bodies like the Father37 and dwell with Him “in a state of never-ending happiness.”38 There, the Father will wipe away all our tears39 and help us continue on our journey to become like Him.As you can see, Heavenly Father is always there for us.40The Character of the FatherTo become like the Father, we must develop His character traits.
Heavenly Father’s perfections and attributes include the following:The Father is “Endless and Eternal.”41He is perfectly just, merciful, kind, long-suffering, and wants only what is best for us.42Heavenly Father is love.43He keeps His covenants.44He does not change.45He cannot lie.46The Father is no respecter of persons.47He knows all things—past, present, and future—from the beginning.48Heavenly Father is more intelligent49 than us all.50The Father has all power51 and does all that He takes into His heart to do.52Brothers and sisters, we can trust in and rely upon the Father.
Because He has an eternal perspective, Heavenly Father can see things we cannot.
His joy, work, and glory are to bring to pass our immortality and exaltation.53 Everything He does is for our benefit.
He “wants [our] eternal happiness even more than [we] do.”54 And He “would not require [us] to experience a moment more of difficulty than is absolutely needed for [our] benefit or for that of those [we] love.”55 As a result, He focuses on helping us to progress, not on judging and condemning us.56Becoming Like Our FatherAs spirit sons and daughters of God, each of us has the potential to become like the Father.
To do so, we must worship the Father in the name of the Son.57 We do this by striving to be obedient to the will of the Father, as the Savior was,58 and by continually repenting.59 As we do these things, we “receive grace for grace” until we receive of the Father’s fulness60 and are endowed with “his character, perfections, and attributes.”61Given the distance between what we are as mortals and what Heavenly Father has become, it is not surprising that some feel that becoming like the Father is unattainable.
Nevertheless, the scriptures are clear.
If we will cleave in faith to Christ, repent, and seek God’s grace through obedience, eventually we will become like the Father.
I take great comfort in the fact that those who strive to be obedient will “receive grace for grace” and ultimately “receive of his fulness.”62 In other words, we won’t become like the Father on our own.63 Rather, it will come through gifts of grace, some big but mostly small, that build upon one another until we have a fulness.
But, brothers and sisters, it will come!I invite you to trust that Heavenly Father knows how to exalt you; seek His daily, sustaining help; and press forward with faith in Christ even when you cannot feel God’s love.There is much we do not understand about becoming like the Father.64 But I can testify with certainty that striving to become like the Father is worth every sacrifice.65 The sacrifices we make here in mortality, no matter how great, are simply incomparable to the immeasurable joy, happiness, and love we will feel in God’s presence.66 If you are struggling to believe it is worth the sacrifices you are asked to make, the Savior calls to you, saying, “Ye have not as yet understood how great blessings the Father hath … prepared for you; … ye cannot bear all things now; nevertheless, be of good cheer, for I will lead you along.”67I testify that your Heavenly Father loves you and wants you to live with Him again.
In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
My beloved brothers and sisters, thank you for your faith, your devotion, and your love.
We share an enormous responsibility to be who the Lord wants us to be and to do what He wants us to do.
We are part of a great movement—the gathering of scattered Israel.
I speak of this doctrine today because of its unique importance in God’s eternal plan.Abrahamic CovenantAnciently, the Lord blessed Father Abraham with a promise to make his posterity a chosen people.1 References to this covenant occur throughout the scriptures.
Included were promises that the Son of God would come through Abraham’s lineage, that certain lands would be inherited, that nations and kindreds of the earth would be blessed through his seed, and more.2 While some aspects of that covenant have already been fulfilled, the Book of Mormon teaches that this Abrahamic covenant will be fulfilled only in these latter days!3 It also emphasizes that we are among the covenant people of the Lord.4 Ours is the privilege to participate personally in the fulfillment of these promises.
What an exciting time to live!Israel Became ScatteredAs descendants of Abraham, the tribes of ancient Israel had access to priesthood authority and blessings of the gospel, but eventually the people rebelled.
They killed the prophets and were punished by the Lord.
Ten tribes were carried captive into Assyria.
From there they became lost to the records of mankind.
(Obviously, the ten tribes are not lost to the Lord.)
Two remaining tribes continued a short time and then, because of their rebellion, were taken captive into Babylon.5 When they returned, they were favored of the Lord, but again they honored Him not.
They rejected and vilified Him.
A loving but grieving Father vowed, “I will scatter you among the heathen,”6 and that He did—into all nations.Israel to Be GatheredGod’s promise for the gathering of scattered Israel was equally emphatic.7 Isaiah, for example, foresaw that in the latter days the Lord would send “swift messengers” to these people who were so “scattered and peeled.”8This promise of the gathering, woven all through the fabric of the scriptures, will be fulfilled just as surely as were the prophecies of the scattering of Israel.9The Church of Jesus Christ in the Meridian of Time and the ApostasyPrior to His Crucifixion, the Lord Jesus Christ had established His Church.
It included apostles, prophets, seventies, teachers, and so forth.10 And the Master sent His disciples into the world to preach His gospel.11After a time the Church as established by the Lord fell into spiritual decay.
His teachings were altered; His ordinances were changed.
The Great Apostasy came as had been foretold by Paul, who knew that the Lord would not come again “except there come a falling away first.”12This Great Apostasy followed the pattern that had ended each previous dispensation.
The very first was in the time of Adam.
Then came dispensations of Enoch, Noah, Abraham, Moses, and others.
Each prophet had a divine commission to teach of the divinity and the doctrine of the Lord Jesus Christ.
In each age these teachings were meant to help the people.
But their disobedience resulted in apostasy.
Thus, all previous dispensations were limited in time and location.
They were limited in time because each ended in apostasy.
They were limited in location to a relatively small segment of planet earth.The Restoration of All ThingsThus a complete restoration was required.
God the Father and Jesus Christ called upon the Prophet Joseph Smith to be the prophet of this dispensation.
All divine powers of previous dispensations were to be restored through him.13 This dispensation of the fulness of times would not be limited in time or in location.
It would not end in apostasy, and it would fill the world.14The Gathering of Israel—an Integral Part of the Restoration of All ThingsAs prophesied by Peter and Paul, all things were to be restored in this dispensation.
Therefore, there must come, as part of that restoration, the long-awaited gathering of scattered Israel.15 It is a necessary prelude to the Second Coming of the Lord.16This doctrine of the gathering is one of the important teachings of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
The Lord has declared: “I give unto you a sign … that I shall gather in, from their long dispersion, my people, O house of Israel, and shall establish again among them my Zion.”17 The coming forth of the Book of Mormon is a sign to the entire world that the Lord has commenced to gather Israel and fulfill covenants He made to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.18 We not only teach this doctrine, but we participate in it.
We do so as we help to gather the elect of the Lord on both sides of the veil.The Book of Mormon is central to this work.
It declares the doctrine of the gathering.19 It causes people to learn about Jesus Christ, to believe His gospel, and to join His Church.
In fact, if there were no Book of Mormon, the promised gathering of Israel would not occur.20To us the honored name of Abraham is important.
It is mentioned in more verses of scriptures of the Restoration than in all verses of the Bible.21 Abraham is linked to all members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.22 The Lord reaffirmed the Abrahamic covenant in our day through the Prophet Joseph Smith.23 In the temple we receive our ultimate blessings, as the seed of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.24The Dispensation of the Fulness of TimesThis dispensation of the fulness of times was foreseen by God as the time to gather, both in heaven and on earth.
Peter knew that after a period of apostasy, a restoration would come.
He, who had been with the Lord on the Mount of Transfiguration, declared:“Repent ye therefore, and be converted, that your sins may be blotted out, when the times of refreshing shall come from the presence of the Lord; …“Whom the heaven must receive until the times of restitution of all things, which God hath spoken by the mouth of all his holy prophets since the world began.”25In modern times the Apostles Peter, James, and John were sent by the Lord with “the keys of [His] kingdom, and a dispensation of the gospel for the last times; and for the fulness of times,” in which He would “gather together in one all things, both which are in heaven, and which are on earth.”26In the year 1830 the Prophet Joseph Smith learned of a heavenly messenger named Elias, who possessed keys to bring to pass “the restoration of all things.”27Six years later the Kirtland Temple was dedicated.
After the Lord accepted that holy house, heavenly messengers came with priesthood keys.
Moses appeared28 “and committed … the keys of the gathering of Israel from the four parts of the earth, and the leading of the ten tribes from the land of the north.“After this, Elias appeared, and committed the dispensation of the gospel of Abraham, saying that in us and our seed all generations after us should be blessed.”29Then Elijah the prophet came and proclaimed, “Behold, the time has fully come, which was spoken of by the mouth of Malachi—testifying that he [Elijah] should be sent, before the great and dreadful day of the Lord come—to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the children to the fathers, lest the whole earth be smitten with a curse.”30These events occurred on April 3, 1836,31 and thus fulfilled Malachi’s prophecy.32 Sacred keys of this dispensation were restored.33Gathering of Souls on the Other Side of the VeilMercifully, the invitation to “come unto Christ”34 can also be extended to those who died without a knowledge of the gospel.35 Part of their preparation requires earthly efforts of others.
We gather pedigree charts, create family group sheets, and do temple work vicariously to gather individuals unto the Lord and into their families.36To Participate in the Gathering: A Commitment by CovenantHere on earth, missionary work is crucial to the gathering of Israel.
The gospel was to be taken first to the “lost sheep of the house of Israel.”37 Consequently, servants of the Lord have gone forth proclaiming the Restoration.
In many nations our missionaries have searched for those of scattered Israel; they have hunted for them “out of the holes of the rocks”; and they have fished for them as in ancient days.38The choice to come unto Christ is not a matter of physical location; it is a matter of individual commitment.
People can be “brought to the knowledge of the Lord”39 without leaving their homelands.
True, in the early days of the Church, conversion often meant emigration as well.
But now the gathering takes place in each nation.
The Lord has decreed the establishment of Zion40 in each realm where He has given His Saints their birth and nationality.
Scripture foretells that the people “shall be gathered home to the lands of their inheritance, and shall be established in all their lands of promise.”41 “Every nation is the gathering place for its own people.”42 The place of gathering for Brazilian Saints is in Brazil; the place of gathering for Nigerian Saints is in Nigeria; the place of gathering for Korean Saints is in Korea; and so forth.
Zion is “the pure in heart.”43 Zion is wherever righteous Saints are.
Publications, communications, and congregations are now such that nearly all members have access to the doctrines, keys, ordinances, and blessings of the gospel, regardless of their location.Spiritual security will always depend upon how one lives, not where one lives.
Saints in every land have equal claim upon the blessings of the Lord.This work of Almighty God is true.
He lives.
Jesus is the Christ.
This is His Church, restored to accomplish its divine destiny, including the promised gathering of Israel.
President Gordon B. Hinckley is God’s prophet today.
I so testify in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
A few months before President Boyd K. Packer passed away, general priesthood and auxiliary leaders had the precious opportunity of having him speak to us.
I have not been able to quit thinking about what he said.
He shared that he had searched backward throughout his lifetime, looking for evidence of the sins that he had committed and sincerely repented of, and he could find no trace of them.
Because of the atoning sacrifice of our beloved Savior, Jesus Christ, and through sincere repentance, his sins were completely gone, as if they had never happened.
President Packer then charged us as leaders that day to testify that this is true for each one of us who sincerely repents.I’m aware of a man who was involved in moral transgressions several years ago.
For some time, this man felt too ashamed and too worried to approach his wife and his priesthood leaders.
He wanted to fully repent but actually expressed that he was willing to give up his own eternal salvation rather than put his spouse and children through the sorrow, shame, or other consequences that might be caused by his confession.When we have sinned, Satan often tries to convince us that the unselfish thing to do is to protect others from the devastation of the knowledge of our sins, including avoiding confessing to our bishop, who can bless our lives through his priesthood keys as a common judge in Israel.
The truth, however, is that the unselfish and Christlike thing to do is to confess and repent.
This is Heavenly Father’s great plan of redemption.Finally, this dear man confessed to his faithful wife and his Church leaders, expressing deep remorse.
Though it was the most difficult thing he had ever done, feelings of relief, peace, gratitude, love for our Savior, and a knowledge that the Lord was lifting his heavy burden and carrying him caused joy beyond expression, regardless of the outcome and his future.He had been certain that his wife and children would be devastated—and they were; and that there would be disciplinary action and a release from his calling—and there was.
He was certain that his wife would be brokenhearted, hurt, and angry—and she was.
And he was convinced that she would leave, taking the children with her—but she didn’t.Sometimes serious transgression leads to divorce, and depending on circumstances, that might be necessary.
But to this man’s amazement, his wife embraced him and dedicated herself to helping him in any way that she could.
Over time, she was able to fully forgive him.
She had felt the healing power of the Savior’s Atonement for her.
Years later, this couple and their three children are strong and faithful.
The husband and wife serve in the temple and have a wonderful, loving marriage.
The depth of this man’s testimony and his love and gratitude for the Savior are so evident in his life.Amulek testified, “I would that ye would come forth and harden not your hearts any longer; … if ye will repent … , immediately shall the great plan of redemption be brought about unto you.”1When I served with my husband as he presided over a mission, we went to the airport to pick up a large group of missionaries one morning.
One particular young man caught our eye.
He seemed sad, weighed down, almost distraught.
We watched him carefully that afternoon.
By evening, this young man made a belated confession, and his leaders determined that he needed to return home.
Although we were very sad that he had been dishonest and had not repented before coming on his mission, on the way to the airport we sincerely and lovingly praised him for having the courage to come forward, and we pledged to stay in close contact with him.This great young man was blessed to have wonderful parents, great priesthood leaders, and a supportive, loving ward.
After a year of working hard to fully repent and partake of the Savior’s Atonement, he was able to return to our mission.
It is difficult for me to describe the feelings of joy we felt as we picked up this young man from the airport.
He was full of the Spirit, happy, confident before the Lord, and anxious to fulfill a faithful mission.
He became an outstanding missionary, and later my husband and I had the privilege of attending his temple sealing.By contrast, I’m aware of another missionary who, knowing her unconfessed sin from before her mission would surely cause her to be sent home early, made her own plan to work extra hard during her mission and confess to the mission president just days before completing her mission.
She lacked godly sorrow and tried to circumvent the plan that our loving Savior has offered each one of us.During our mission, I once accompanied my husband when he went to interview a man for baptism.
While my husband conducted the interview, I waited outside with the sister missionaries who had taught this man.
When the interview was finished, my husband informed the missionaries that the man would be able to be baptized.
This dear man wept and wept as he explained that he had been certain that the serious sins he had committed in his life would prevent him from being able to be baptized.
I have seldom witnessed the joy and happiness of someone coming out of the darkness and into the light equal to what I witnessed that day.Elder D. Todd Christofferson testified:“With faith in [our] merciful Redeemer and His power, potential despair turns to hope.
One’s very heart and desires change, and the once-appealing sin becomes increasingly abhorrent.
…“… Whatever the cost of repentance, it is swallowed up in the joy of forgiveness.”2These experiences remind me of Enos in the Book of Mormon, who “cried unto [the Lord] in mighty prayer” and then heard a voice saying, “Enos, thy sins are forgiven thee.
…“And I, Enos, knew that God could not lie; wherefore, my guilt was swept away.“And I said: Lord, how is it done?“And he said unto me: Because of thy faith in Christ.
… Go to, thy faith hath made thee whole.”3In preparing this talk, I wanted to get a feeling for how our grandchildren understand repentance and how they feel about the Savior, so I asked our children to ask them the following questions.
I was touched by our grandchildren’s responses.What is repentance?
“When you hit someone, you can say ‘sorry’ and help them up.”How do you feel when you repent?
“You can feel Him; you can feel His warmness, and the bad feeling goes away.”How do you feel about Jesus and Heavenly Father when you repent?
“I feel that Jesus feels it was worth it to do the Atonement, and He’s happy that we can live with Him again.”Why do Jesus and Heavenly Father want me to repent?
In the words of my teenage grandchild: “Because They love me!
In order to progress and become like Them, I need to repent.
I also want the Spirit to be with me, so I need to repent daily to have His wonderful companionship.
I will never be able to thank Them enough.”When four-year-old Brynlee heard these questions, she said, “I don’t know, Daddy.
You teach me.”In a past general conference, Elder Jeffrey R. Holland declared: “However late you think you are, however many chances you think you have missed, however many mistakes you feel you have made … , or however far from home and family and God you feel you have traveled, I testify that you have not traveled beyond the reach of divine love.
It is not possible for you to sink lower than the infinite light of Christ’s Atonement shines.”4Oh, how I want each of my children, grandchildren, and each of you, my brothers and sisters, to feel the joy and closeness to Heavenly Father and to our Savior as we daily repent of our sins and weaknesses.
Each accountable child of Heavenly Father needs repentance.
Consider what sins we need to repent of.
What is holding us back?
In what ways do we need to improve?I know, as President Packer experienced and testified, that when we sincerely repent of our sins, they are truly gone—without a trace!
I have personally felt the love, the joy, the relief, and the confidence before the Lord as I have sincerely repented.To me, the greatest miracles in life are not the parting of the Red Sea, the moving of mountains, or even the healing of the body.
The greatest miracle happens when we humbly approach our Father in Heaven in prayer, fervently plead to be forgiven, and then are cleansed of those sins through the atoning sacrifice of our Savior.
In the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.
Subjects for general conference talks are assigned—not by mortal authority but by the impressions of the Spirit.
Many subjects would address the mortal concerns we all share.
But just as Jesus did not teach how to overcome the mortal challenges or political oppression of His day, He usually inspires His modern servants to speak about what we must do to reform our personal lives to prepare us to return to our heavenly home.
On this Easter weekend I have felt impressed to talk about the precious and timeless teachings in one of the parables of Jesus.The parable of the sower is one of a small number of parables reported in all three of the synoptic Gospels.
It is also one of an even smaller group of parables Jesus explained to His disciples.
The seed that was sown was “the word of the kingdom” (Matthew 13:19), “the word” (Mark 4:14), or “the word of God” (Luke 8:11)—the teachings of the Master and His servants.The different soils on which the seeds fell represent different ways in which mortals receive and follow these teachings.
Thus the seeds that “fell by the way side” (Mark 4:4) have not reached mortal soil where they might possibly grow.
They are like teachings that fall upon a heart hardened or unprepared.
I will say nothing more of these.
My message concerns those of us who have committed to be followers of Christ.
What do we do with the Savior’s teachings as we live our lives?The parable of the sower warns us of circumstances and attitudes that can keep anyone who has received the seed of the gospel message from bringing forth a goodly harvest.I.
Stony Ground, No RootSome seed “fell on stony ground, where it had not much earth; and immediately it sprang up, because it had no depth of earth: but when the sun was up, it was scorched; and because it had no root, it withered away” (Mark 4:5–6).Jesus explained that this describes those “who, when they have heard the word, immediately receive it with gladness,” but because they “have no root in themselves, … when affliction or persecution ariseth for the word’s sake, immediately they are offended” (Mark 4:16–17).What causes hearers to “have no root in themselves”?
This is the circumstance of new members who are merely converted to the missionaries or to the many attractive characteristics of the Church or to the many great fruits of Church membership.
Not being rooted in the word, they can be scorched and wither away when opposition arises.
But even those raised in the Church—long-term members—can slip into a condition where they have no root in themselves.
I have known some of these—members without firm and lasting conversion to the gospel of Jesus Christ.
If we are not rooted in the teachings of the gospel and regular in its practices, any one of us can develop a stony heart, which is stony ground for spiritual seeds.Spiritual food is necessary for spiritual survival, especially in a world that is moving away from belief in God and the absolutes of right and wrong.
In an age dominated by the Internet, which magnifies messages that menace faith, we must increase our exposure to spiritual truth in order to strengthen our faith and stay rooted in the gospel.Young people, if that teaching seems too general, here is a specific example.
If the emblems of the sacrament are being passed and you are texting or whispering or playing video games or doing anything else to deny yourself essential spiritual food, you are severing your spiritual roots and moving yourself toward stony ground.
You are making yourself vulnerable to withering away when you encounter tribulation like isolation, intimidation, or ridicule.
And that applies to adults also.Another potential destroyer of spiritual roots—accelerated by current technology but not unique to it—is the keyhole view of the gospel or the Church.
This limited view focuses on a particular doctrine or practice or perceived deficiency in a leader and ignores the grand panorama of the gospel plan and the personal and communal fruits of its harvest.
President Gordon B. Hinckley gave a vivid description of one aspect of this keyhole view.
He told a BYU audience about political commentators “aflame with indignation” at a then-recent news event.
“With studied art they poured out the sour vinegar of invective and anger.
… Surely,” he concluded, “this is the age and place of the gifted pickle sucker.”1 In contrast, to be securely rooted in the gospel, we must be moderate and measured in criticism and seek always for the broader view of the majestic work of God.II.
Thorns: The Cares of This World and the Deceitfulness of RichesJesus taught that “some fell among thorns, and the thorns grew up, and choked it, and it yielded no fruit” (Mark 4:7).
He explained that these are “such as hear the word, and the cares of this world, and the deceitfulness of riches, and the lusts of other things entering in, choke the word, and it becometh unfruitful” (Mark 4:18–19).
This is surely a warning to be heeded by all of us.I will speak first of the deceitfulness of riches.
Wherever we are in our spiritual journey—whatever our state of conversion—we are all tempted by this.
When attitudes or priorities are fixed on the acquisition, use, or possession of property, we call that materialism.
So much has been said and written about materialism that little needs to be added here.2 Those who believe in what has been called the theology of prosperity are suffering from the deceitfulness of riches.
The possession of wealth or significant income is not a mark of heavenly favor, and their absence is not evidence of heavenly disfavor.
When Jesus told a faithful follower that he could inherit eternal life if he would only give all that he had to the poor (see Mark 10:17–24), He was not identifying an evil in the possession of riches but an evil in that follower’s attitude toward them.
As we are all aware, Jesus praised the good Samaritan, who used the same coinage to serve his fellowman that Judas used to betray his Savior.
The root of all evil is not money but the love of money (see 1 Timothy 6:10).The Book of Mormon tells of a time when the Church of God “began to fail in its progress” (Alma 4:10) because “the people of the church began to … set their hearts upon riches and upon the vain things of the world” (Alma 4:8).
Whoever has an abundance of material things is in jeopardy of being spiritually “sedated” by riches and other things of the world.3 That is a suitable introduction to the next of the Savior’s teachings.The most subtle thorns to choke out the effect of the gospel word in our lives are the worldly forces that Jesus called the “cares and riches and pleasures of this life” (Luke 8:14).
These are too numerous to recite.
Some examples will suffice.On one occasion Jesus rebuked His chief Apostle, saying to Peter, “Thou art an offence unto me: for thou savourest not the things that be of God, but those that be of men” (Matthew 16:23; see also D&C 3:6–7; 58:39).
Savoring the things of men means putting the cares of this world ahead of the things of God in our actions, our priorities, and our thinking.We surrender to the “pleasures of this life” (1) when we are addicted, which impairs God’s precious gift of agency; (2) when we are beguiled by trivial distractions, which draw us away from things of eternal importance; and (3) when we have an entitlement mentality, which impairs the personal growth necessary to qualify us for our eternal destiny.We are overcome by the “cares … of this life” when we are paralyzed by fear of the future, which hinders our going forward in faith, trusting in God and His promises.
Twenty-five years ago my esteemed BYU teacher Hugh W. Nibley spoke of the dangers of surrendering to the cares of the world.
He was asked in an interview whether world conditions and our duty to spread the gospel made it desirable to seek some way to “be accommodating of the world in what we do in the Church.”4His reply: “That’s been the whole story of the Church, hasn’t it?
You have to be willing to offend here, you have to be willing to take the risk.
That’s where the faith comes in.
… Our commitment is supposed to be a test, it’s supposed to be hard, it’s supposed to be impractical in the terms of this world.”5This gospel priority was affirmed on the BYU campus just a few months ago by an esteemed Catholic leader, Charles J. Chaput, the archbishop of Philadelphia.
Speaking of “concerns that the LDS and Catholic communities share,” such as “about marriage and family, the nature of our sexuality, the sanctity of human life, and the urgency of religious liberty,” he said this:“I want to stress again the importance of really living what we claim to believe.
That needs to be a priority—not just in our personal and family lives but in our churches, our political choices, our business dealings, our treatment of the poor; in other words, in everything we do.”“Here’s why that’s important,” he continued.
“Learn from the Catholic experience.
We Catholics believe that our vocation is to be leaven in society.
But there’s a fine line between being leaven in society, and being digested by society.”6The Savior’s warning against having the cares of this world choke out the word of God in our lives surely challenges us to keep our priorities fixed—our hearts set—on the commandments of God and the leadership of His Church.The Savior’s examples could cause us to think of this parable as the parable of the soils.
The suitability of the soil depends upon the heart of each one of us who is exposed to the gospel seed.
In susceptibility to spiritual teachings, some hearts are hardened and unprepared, some hearts are stony from disuse, and some hearts are set upon the things of the world.III.
Fell into Good Ground and Brought Forth FruitThe parable of the sower ends with the Savior’s description of the seed that “fell into good ground, and brought forth fruit” in various measures (Matthew 13:8).
How can we prepare ourselves to be that good ground and to have that good harvest?Jesus explained that “the good ground are they, which in an honest and good heart, having heard the word, keep it, and bring forth fruit with patience” (Luke 8:15).
We have the seed of the gospel word.
It is up to each of us to set the priorities and to do the things that make our soil good and our harvest plentiful.
We must seek to be firmly rooted and converted to the gospel of Jesus Christ (see Colossians 2:6–7).
We achieve this conversion by praying, by scripture reading, by serving, and by regularly partaking of the sacrament to always have His Spirit to be with us.
We must also seek that mighty change of heart (see Alma 5:12–14) that replaces evil desires and selfish concerns with the love of God and the desire to serve Him and His children.I testify of the truth of these things, and I testify of our Savior, Jesus Christ, whose teachings point the way and whose Atonement makes it all possible, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
My beloved brothers and sisters, both here in the Conference Center and throughout the world, how grateful I am for the opportunity to share my thoughts with you this morning.Fifty-two years ago, in July 1964, I had an assignment in New York City during the time the World’s Fair was hosted there.
Early one morning I visited the Mormon Pavilion at the fair.
I arrived just prior to a showing of the Church’s film Man’s Search for Happiness, a portrayal of the plan of salvation which has since become a Church classic.
I sat next to a young man who was perhaps 35 years of age.
We spoke briefly.
He was not a member of our Church.
Then the lights dimmed, and the show commenced.We listened to the voice of the narrator as he posed the poignant and universal questions: Where did I come from?
Why am I here?
Where do I go when I leave this life?
All ears strained to hear the answers, and all eyes were fixed on the images portrayed.
A description of our premortal life was given, along with an explanation of our purpose on earth.
We witnessed a touching depiction of the passing from this life of an elderly grandfather and of his glorious reunion with loved ones who had preceded him to the spirit world.At the conclusion of this beautiful portrayal of our Heavenly Father’s plan for us, the crowd silently filed out, many visibly touched by the message of the film.
The young visitor next to me did not arise.
I asked if he had enjoyed the presentation.
His emphatic response: “This is the truth!”Our Father’s plan for our happiness and our salvation is shared by our missionaries throughout the world.
Not all who hear this divine message accept and embrace it.
However, men and women everywhere, just like my young friend at the New York World’s Fair, recognize its truths, and they plant their feet on the path that will lead them safely home.
Their lives are forever changed.Essential to the plan is our Savior, Jesus Christ.
Without His atoning sacrifice, all would be lost.
It is not enough, however, merely to believe in Him and His mission.
We need to work and learn, search and pray, repent and improve.
We need to know God’s laws and live them.
We need to receive His saving ordinances.
Only by so doing will we obtain true, eternal happiness.We are blessed to have the truth.
We have a mandate to share the truth.
Let us live the truth, that we might merit all that the Father has for us.
He does nothing save it be for our benefit.
He has told us, “This is my work and my glory—to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man.”1From the depths of my soul and in all humility, I testify of the great gift which is our Father’s plan for us.
It is the one perfect path to peace and happiness both here and in the world to come.My brothers and sisters, I leave with you my love and my blessing as I close, and I do so in the name of our Savior and Redeemer, even Jesus Christ, amen.
We all have heroes, particularly when we are young.
I was born and grew up in Princeton, New Jersey, in the United States.
The most famous sports teams near where we lived were headquartered in New York City.
It was the home of three professional baseball teams in those faraway days: the Brooklyn Dodgers, the New York Giants, and the New York Yankees.
Philadelphia was even closer to our home and was the home of the Athletics and the Phillies baseball teams.
There were many potential baseball heroes for me on those teams.Joe DiMaggio, who played for the New York Yankees, became my baseball hero.
When my brothers and my friends played baseball on the school grounds next to our house, I tried to swing the bat the way I thought Joe DiMaggio did it.
That was before the days of television (this is ancient history), so I only had pictures from newspapers to use to copy his swing.When I was growing up, my father drove me to Yankee Stadium.
That was the only time I saw Joe DiMaggio play.
As if I am still there, in my mind I can see him swing the bat and see the white baseball fly straight into the stands at center field.Now, my baseball skills never came close to those of my childhood hero.
But the few times I hit a baseball well, I copied the level of his powerful swing as closely as I could.When we choose heroes, we begin to copy, consciously or unconsciously, what we admire most in them.Happily, my wise parents put great heroes in my path as a boy.
My dad took me to Yankee Stadium only once to observe my baseball hero play, but every Sunday he let me observe a priesthood man who became a hero.
That hero shaped my life.
My father was the branch president of the little branch which met in our home.
By the way, if you came down to the first floor on Sunday morning, you were in church.
Our branch never had more than 30 people in attendance.There was a young man who drove his mother to our house for meetings, but he never came into the house.
He was not a member.
It was my father who succeeded by going out to him where he parked the car and inviting him into our home.
He was baptized and became my first and only Aaronic Priesthood leader.
He became my priesthood hero.
I still remember the wooden statue he gave me as a reward after we had completed a project to cut firewood for a widow.
I have tried to be like him whenever I give justified praise to a servant of God.I chose another hero in that little branch of the Church.
He was a United States Marine who came to our meetings wearing his green marine uniform.
It was wartime, so that alone made him my hero.
He had been sent to Princeton University by the marines to further his education.
But far more than admiring his military uniform, I watched him play in Palmer Stadium as captain of the Princeton University football team.
I saw him play on the university basketball team and also watched him play as the star catcher on their baseball team.But even more, he came to my home during the week to show me how to shoot a basketball with both my left and my right hand.
He told me that I would need that skill because I would someday play basketball on good teams.
I did not realize it then, but for years he was, for me, a model of a true priesthood man.Each of you will be a model of a priesthood man whether you want to be or not.
You became a lighted candle when you accepted the priesthood.
The Lord put you on the candlestick to light the way for everyone who surrounds you.
That is especially true for those in your priesthood quorum.
You can be a great model, an average one, or a bad model.
You may think it doesn’t matter to you, but it does to the Lord.
He said it this way:“Ye are the light of the world.
A city that is set on an hill cannot be hid.“Neither do men light a candle, and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick; and it giveth light unto all that are in the house.“Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven.”1I have been blessed by examples of great priesthood holders in quorums where I was fortunate to serve.
You can do what they have done for me by being an example for others to follow.I have observed three common characteristics of the priesthood holders who are my heroes.
One is a pattern of prayer, the second is a habit of service, and the third is a rock-hard decision to be honest.We all pray, but the priesthood holder you want to be prays often and with real intent.
In the evening you will get on your knees and thank God for the blessings of the day.
You will thank Him for parents, for teachers, and for great examples to follow.
You will describe in your prayers specifically who has blessed your life and how, during that day.
That will take more than a few minutes and more than a little thought.
It will surprise you and change you.As you pray for forgiveness, you will find yourself forgiving others.
As you thank God for His kindness, you will think of others, by name, who need your kindness.
Again, that experience will surprise you every day, and over time it will change you.One way you will be changed by such fervent prayer is, I promise you, that you will feel truly that you are a child of God.
When you know that you are a child of God, you will also know that He expects much of you.
Because you are His child, He will expect you to follow His teachings and the teachings of His dear Son, Jesus Christ.
He will expect you to be generous and kind to others.
He will be disappointed if you are proud and self-centered.
He will bless you to have the desire to put the interests of others above your own.Some of you are already models of unselfish priesthood service.
In temples across the world, priesthood holders arrive before sunrise.
And some serve long after sunset.
There is no recognition or public acclaim in this world for that sacrifice of time and effort.
I have gone with young people as they serve those in the spirit world, who are not able to claim temple blessings for themselves.As I see happiness rather than fatigue in the faces of those who serve there early and late, I know there are great rewards in this life for that type of unselfish priesthood service, but it is only a token of the joy they will share with those whom they served in the spirit world.I have seen that same happiness in the faces of those who speak to others about the blessings which come from belonging to the kingdom of God.
I know of a branch president who almost every day brings people to the missionaries for them to teach.
Just a few months ago he was not yet a member of the Church.
Now there are missionaries teaching and a branch growing in numbers and strength because of him.
But more than that, he is a light to others who will open their mouths and so hasten the Lord’s gathering of the children of Heavenly Father.As you pray and serve others, your knowledge that you are a child of God and your feelings about Him will grow.
You will become more aware that He is saddened if you are dishonest in any way.
You will be more determined to keep your word to God and to others.
You will be more aware of taking anything that does not belong to you.
You will be more honest with your employers.
You will be more determined to be on time and to complete every task you are given by the Lord that you have accepted to do.Rather than wondering if their home teachers will come, children in the families you are called to teach will look forward with anticipation to your visit.
My children have received that blessing.
As they grew, they had priesthood heroes help them set their own courses in serving the Lord.
That blessed example is now passing into the third generation.My message is also one of thanks.I thank you for your prayers.
I thank you for getting on your knees in recognition of the fact that you don’t have all the answers.
You pray to the God of heaven to express your gratitude and to invoke His blessings upon your lives and your families.
I thank you for your service to others and for the times you felt no need for acknowledgment of your service.We have accepted the Lord’s warning that if we seek credit in this world for our service, we may forfeit greater blessings.
You will remember these words:“Take heed that ye do not your alms before men, to be seen of them: otherwise ye have no reward of your Father which is in heaven.“Therefore when thou doest thine alms, do not sound a trumpet before thee, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, that they may have glory of men.
Verily I say unto you, They have their reward.“But when thou doest alms, let not thy left hand know what thy right hand doeth:“That thine alms may be in secret: and thy Father which seeth in secret himself shall reward thee openly.”2Those who have been my models of great priesthood holders do not easily recognize that they possess heroic qualities.
In fact, they seem to have difficulty seeing those things that I so much admire in them.
I mentioned my father was a faithful president of a tiny branch of the Church in New Jersey.
He later was a member of the Sunday School general board for the Church.
Yet I am careful today to speak modestly about his priesthood service, because he was modest.The same is true for the marine who was my childhood hero.
He never spoke to me of his priesthood service or of his accomplishments.
He just gave service.
I learned about his faithfulness from others.
If he even saw the characteristics in himself that I admired, I could not tell.So my counsel to you who want to bless others with your priesthood has to do with your life which is private to all but God.Pray to Him.
Thank Him for all that is good in your life.
Ask Him to know what individuals He has placed in your way for you to serve.
Plead that He will help you give that service.
Pray so that you can forgive and so that you can be forgiven.
Then serve them, love them, and forgive them.Above all, remember that of all the service you give, none is greater than to help people choose to qualify for eternal life.
God has given that overarching direction to us on how to use our priesthood.
He is the perfect example of it.
This is the example we see in small part in the best of His mortal servants:“And the Lord God spake unto Moses, saying: The heavens, they are many, and they cannot be numbered unto man; but they are numbered unto me, for they are mine.“And as one earth shall pass away, and the heavens thereof even so shall another come; and there is no end to my works, neither to my words.“For behold, this is my work and my glory—to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man.”3We are to help in that work.
Each of us can make a difference.
We have been prepared for our time and place in the last days of that sacred work.
Each of us has been blessed with examples of those who have made that work the overriding purpose of their time on earth.I pray that we may help each other rise to that opportunity.God the Father lives and will answer your prayers for the help you need to serve Him well.
Jesus Christ is the risen Lord.
This is His Church.
The priesthood you hold is the power to act in His name in His work to serve the children of God.
As you give your whole heart to this work, He will magnify you.
I so promise in the name of Jesus Christ, our Savior, amen.
A crushing sense of defeat and despair enveloped His disciples as Jesus suffered and died on the cross and His body was placed lifeless in the tomb.
Despite what the Savior had repeatedly said of His death and subsequent rising again, they had not understood.
The dark afternoon of His Crucifixion, however, was soon followed by the joyous morning of His Resurrection.
But that joy came only as the disciples became eyewitnesses of the Resurrection, for even the declaration of angels that He had risen was at first incomprehensible—it was something so totally unprecedented.Mary Magdalene and a few other faithful women came early to the Savior’s tomb that Sunday morning, bringing spices and ointments to complete the anointing begun when the Lord’s body was hastily laid in the sepulchre before the approaching Sabbath.
On this morning of mornings, they were greeted by an open sepulchre, the covering stone having been rolled away, and two angels who declared:“Why seek ye the living among the dead?“He is not here, but is risen: remember how he spake unto you when he was yet in Galilee,“Saying, The Son of man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men, and be crucified, and the third day rise again.”1“Come, see the place where the Lord lay.“And go quickly, and tell his disciples that he is risen from the dead.”2As bidden by the angels, Mary Magdalene looked into the tomb, but it seems that all that registered in her mind was that the body of the Lord was gone.
She hurried to report to the Apostles and, finding Peter and John, said to them, “They have taken away the Lord out of the sepulchre, and we know not where they have laid him.”3 Peter and John ran to the place and verified that indeed the tomb was empty, seeing “the linen clothes lying … and the napkin, that was about his head, … wrapped together in a place by itself.”4 John apparently was the first to comprehend the magnificent message of resurrection.
He writes that “he saw, and believed,” whereas the others to that point “knew not the scripture, that [Jesus] must rise again from the dead.”5Peter and John left, but Mary remained behind, still in mourning.
In the meantime the angels had returned and tenderly asked her, “Woman, why weepest thou?
She saith unto them, Because they have taken away my Lord, and I know not where they have laid him.”6 At that moment the resurrected Savior, now standing behind her, spoke, “Woman, why weepest thou?
whom seekest thou?
She, supposing him to be the gardener, saith unto him, Sir, if thou have borne him hence, tell me where thou hast laid him, and I will take him away.”7Elder James E. Talmage wrote: “It was Jesus to whom she spake, her beloved Lord, though she knew it not.
One word from His living lips changed her agonized grief into ecstatic joy.
‘Jesus saith unto her, Mary.’ The voice, the tone, the tender accent she had heard and loved in the earlier days lifted her from the despairing depths into which she had sunk.
She turned, and saw the Lord.
In a transport of joy she reached out her arms to embrace Him, uttering only the endearing and worshipful word, ‘Rabboni,’ meaning My beloved Master.”8And so this blessed woman became the first mortal to see and speak to the resurrected Christ.
Later that same day He appeared to Peter in or near Jerusalem;9 to two disciples on the road to Emmaus;10 and in the evening to 10 of the Apostles and others, appearing suddenly in their midst, saying, “Behold my hands and my feet, that it is I myself: handle me, and see; for a spirit hath not flesh and bones, as ye see me have.”11 Then to further convince them “while they yet believed not for joy, and wondered,”12 He ate broiled fish and honeycomb before them.13 Later He instructed them, “Ye shall be witnesses unto me both in Jerusalem, and in all Judea, and in Samaria, and unto the uttermost part of the earth.”14Beyond these confirmed witnesses in Jerusalem, we have the incomparable ministry of the risen Lord to ancient inhabitants of the Western Hemisphere.
In the land Bountiful, He descended from heaven and invited the assembled throng, some 2,500, to come forward one by one until they had all gone forth, thrusting their hands into His side and feeling the prints of the nails in His hands and in His feet.15“And when they had all gone forth and had witnessed for themselves, they did cry out with one accord, saying:“Hosanna!
Blessed be the name of the Most High God!
And they did fall down at the feet of Jesus, and did worship him.”16Christ’s Resurrection shows that His existence is independent and everlasting.
“For as the Father hath life in himself; so hath he given to the Son to have life in himself.”17 Jesus said:“Therefore doth my Father love me, because I lay down my life, that I might take it again.“No man taketh it from me, but I lay it down of myself.
I have power to lay it down, and I have power to take it again.”18The Savior is not dependent on food or water or oxygen or any other substance or power or person for life.
Both as Jehovah and Messiah, He is the great I Am, the self-existing God.19 He simply is and ever will be.By His Atonement and Resurrection, Jesus Christ has overcome all aspects of the Fall.
Physical death will be temporary, and even spiritual death has an end, in that all come back into the presence of God, at least temporarily, to be judged.
We can have ultimate trust and confidence in His power to overcome all else and grant us everlasting life.“For since by man came death, by man came also the resurrection of the dead.“For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive.”20In the words of Elder Neal A. Maxwell: “Christ’s victory over death ended the human predicament.
Now there are only personal predicaments, and from these too we may be rescued by following the teachings of him who rescued us from general extinction.”21Having satisfied the demands of justice, Christ now steps into the place of justice; or we might say He is justice, just as He is love.22 Likewise, besides being a “perfect, just God,” He is a perfect, merciful God.23 Thus, the Savior makes all things right.
No injustice in mortality is permanent, even death, for He restores life again.
No injury, disability, betrayal, or abuse goes uncompensated in the end because of His ultimate justice and mercy.By the same token, we are all accountable to Him for our lives, our choices, and our actions, even our thoughts.
Because He redeemed us from the Fall, our lives are in reality His.
He declared:“Behold I have given unto you my gospel, and this is the gospel which I have given unto you—that I came into the world to do the will of my Father, because my Father sent me.“And my Father sent me that I might be lifted up upon the cross; and after that I had been lifted up upon the cross, that I might draw all men unto me, that as I have been lifted up by men even so should men be lifted up by the Father, to stand before me, to be judged of their works.”24Consider for a moment the significance of the Resurrection in resolving once and for all the true identity of Jesus of Nazareth and the great philosophical contests and questions of life.
If Jesus was in fact literally resurrected, it necessarily follows that He is a divine being.
No mere mortal has the power in himself to come to life again after dying.
Because He was resurrected, Jesus cannot have been only a carpenter, a teacher, a rabbi, or a prophet.
Because He was resurrected, Jesus had to have been a God, even the Only Begotten Son of the Father.Therefore, what He taught is true; God cannot lie.25Therefore, He was the Creator of the earth, as He said.26Therefore, heaven and hell are real, as He taught.27Therefore, there is a world of spirits, which He visited after His death.28Therefore, He will come again, as the angels said,29 and “reign personally upon the earth.”30Therefore, there is a resurrection and a final judgment for all.31Given the reality of the Resurrection of Christ, doubts about the omnipotence, omniscience, and benevolence of God the Father—who gave His Only Begotten Son for the redemption of the world—are groundless.
Doubts about the meaning and purpose of life are unfounded.
Jesus Christ is in fact the only name or way by which salvation can come to mankind.
The grace of Christ is real, affording both forgiveness and cleansing to the repentant sinner.
Faith truly is more than imagination or psychological invention.
There is ultimate and universal truth, and there are objective and unchanging moral standards, as taught by Him.Given the reality of the Resurrection of Christ, repentance of any violation of His law and commandments is both possible and urgent.
The Savior’s miracles were real, as is His promise to His disciples that they might do the same and even greater works.32 His priesthood is necessarily a real power that “administereth the gospel and holdeth the key of the mysteries of the kingdom, even the key of the knowledge of God.
Therefore, in the ordinances thereof, the power of godliness is manifest.”33 Given the reality of the Resurrection of Christ, death is not our end, and though “skin worms destroy [our bodies], yet in [our] flesh shall [we] see God.”34President Thomas S. Monson tells of a Robert Blatchford who, 100 years ago “in his book God and My Neighbor, attacked with vigor accepted Christian beliefs, such as God, Christ, prayer, and immortality.
He boldly asserted, ‘I claim to have proved everything I set out to prove so fully and decisively that no Christian, however great or able he may be, can answer my arguments or shake my case.’ He surrounded himself with a wall of skepticism.
Then a surprising thing happened.
His wall suddenly crumbled to dust.
… Slowly he began to feel his way back to the faith he had scorned and ridiculed.
What had caused this profound change in his outlook?
His wife [had] died.
With a broken heart, he went into the room where lay all that was mortal of her.
He looked again at the face he loved so well.
Coming out, he said to a friend: ‘It is she, and yet it is not she.
Everything is changed.
Something that was there before is taken away.
She is not the same.
What can be gone if it be not the soul?’”35Did the Lord in reality die and rise again?
Yes.
“The fundamental principles of our religion are the testimony of the Apostles and Prophets, concerning Jesus Christ, that He died, was buried, and rose again the third day, and ascended into heaven; and all other things which pertain to our religion are only appendages to it.”36As the prophesied birth of Jesus drew near, there were those among the ancient Nephite and Lamanite peoples who believed, though most doubted.
In due course, the sign of His birth arrived—a day and a night and a day without darkness—and all knew.37 Even so today, some believe in the literal Resurrection of Christ, and many doubt or disbelieve.
But some know.
In due course, all will see and all will know; indeed, “every knee shall bow, and every tongue confess before him.”38Until then, I believe the many witnesses of the Savior’s Resurrection whose experiences and testimonies are found in the New Testament—Peter and his companions of the Twelve and dear, pure Mary of Magdala, among others.
I believe the testimonies found in the Book of Mormon—of Nephi the Apostle with the unnamed multitude in the land Bountiful, among others.
And I believe the testimony of Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon who, after many other testimonies, proclaimed the great witness of this last dispensation “that he lives!
For we saw him.”39 Under the glance of His all-seeing eye, I stand myself as a witness that Jesus of Nazareth is the resurrected Redeemer, and I testify of all that follows from the fact of His Resurrection.
May you receive the conviction and comfort of that same witness, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
Many people today wonder about the reality of God and our relationship to Him.
Many know little or nothing at all about His great plan of happiness.
More than 30 years ago, President Ezra Taft Benson observed that “much of the … world today rejects the divinity of the Savior.
They question His miraculous birth, His perfect life, and the reality of His glorious resurrection.”1In our day, questions are focused not only on our Savior but also on His Church—The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints—which He restored through the Prophet Joseph Smith.
These questions often focus on the history, teachings, or practices of the Savior’s Church.The Book of Mormon Helps Us Grow in TestimonyFrom Preach My Gospel, we read: “Remember that our understanding [of Heavenly Father and His plan of happiness] comes from modern prophets—Joseph Smith and his successors—who receive direct revelation from God.
Therefore, the first question someone should answer is whether Joseph Smith was a prophet, and he or she can answer this question by reading and praying about the Book of Mormon.”2My testimony of the divine calling of the Prophet Joseph Smith has been strengthened by prayerfully studying the Book of Mormon: Another Testament of Jesus Christ.
I have acted on Moroni’s invitation to “ask God, the Eternal Father, in the name of Christ,” to know of the truthfulness of the Book of Mormon.3 I bear witness that I know it is true.
That knowledge has come to me, as it can come to you, “by the power of the Holy Ghost.”4The introduction to the Book of Mormon states: “Those who gain this divine witness [of the Book of Mormon] from the Holy Spirit will also come to know by the same power that Jesus Christ is the Savior of the world, that Joseph Smith is His revelator and prophet in these last days, and that The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the Lord’s kingdom once again established on the earth, preparatory to the Second Coming of the Messiah.”5As a young missionary going to Chile, I learned a life-changing lesson about the conversion power of the Book of Mormon.
Mr. Gonzalez served in a respected position in his church for many years.
He had extensive religious training, including a degree in theology.
He was quite proud of his biblical expertise.
It was obvious to us that he was a religious scholar.He was well aware of the missionaries of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints as they went about their work in his home city of Lima, Peru.
He always wanted to meet with them so that he could school them in the Bible.One day, almost as a gift from heaven, so he thought, two missionaries stopped him in the street and asked if they could come to his home and share the scriptures with him.
This was his dream come true!
His prayers had been answered.
Finally, he could set these misguided young boys straight.
He told them that he would be delighted to have them come to his house and discuss the scriptures.He could hardly wait for his appointment.
He was ready to use the Bible to disprove their beliefs.
He was confident that the Bible would clearly and articulately point out the error of their ways.
The appointed night came, and the missionaries knocked on the door.
He was giddy.
His moment had finally arrived.He opened the door and invited the missionaries into his home.
One of the missionaries handed him a blue book and bore a sincere testimony that he knew the book contained the word of God.
The second missionary added his powerful testimony of the book, testifying that it had been translated by a modern prophet of God named Joseph Smith and that it taught of Christ.
The missionaries excused themselves and left his home.Mr.
Gonzalez was so disappointed.
But he opened the book, and he started to leaf through its pages.
He read the first page.
He read page after page after page and didn’t stop until late into the afternoon of the next day.
He read the whole book and knew that it was true.
He knew what he had to do.
He called the missionaries, received the lessons, and gave up the life he had known to become a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.That good man was my MTC teacher in Provo, Utah.
Brother Gonzalez’s conversion story and the power of the Book of Mormon made a great impression on me.When I arrived in Chile, my mission president, President Royden J. Glade, invited us to read the testimony of the Prophet Joseph Smith recorded in the Joseph Smith—History every week.
He taught us that a testimony of the First Vision would have a direct correlation to our own testimony of the gospel and our testimony of the Book of Mormon.I took his invitation seriously.
I have read the accounts of the First Vision; I have read the Book of Mormon.
I have prayed as directed by Moroni and asked “God, the Eternal Father, in the name of Christ”6 if the Book of Mormon is true.
I bear witness today that I know the Book of Mormon, as the Prophet Joseph Smith said, is “the most correct of any book on earth, and the keystone of our religion, and a man [will] get nearer to God by abiding by its precepts, than by any other book.”7 The Prophet Joseph also declared: “Take away the Book of Mormon and the revelations, and where is our religion?
We have none.”8Personal ConversionAs we better understand who we are and the purposes of the Book of Mormon, our conversion deepens and becomes more certain.
We are strengthened in our commitment to keep the covenants we have made with God.A principal purpose of the Book of Mormon is to gather scattered Israel.
This gathering gives all of God’s children the opportunity to enter into the covenant path and, by honoring those covenants, return back to the presence of the Father.
As we teach repentance and baptize converts, we gather scattered Israel.The Book of Mormon has 108 references to the house of Israel.
At the beginning of the Book of Mormon, Nephi taught, “For the fulness of mine intent is that I may persuade men to come unto the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, and be saved.”9 The God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob is Jesus Christ, the God of the Old Testament.
We are saved as we come unto Christ through living His gospel.Later, Nephi wrote:“Yea, even my father spake much concerning the Gentiles, and also concerning the house of Israel, that they should be compared like unto an olive tree, whose branches should be broken off and should be scattered upon all the face of the earth.
…“And after the house of Israel should be scattered they should be gathered together again; or, in fine, after the Gentiles had received the fulness of the Gospel, the natural branches of the olive tree, or the remnants of the house of Israel, should be grafted in, or come to the knowledge of the true Messiah, their Lord and their Redeemer.”10Likewise, at the end of the Book of Mormon, the prophet Moroni reminds us of our covenants, saying, “That thou mayest no more be confounded, that the covenants of the Eternal Father which he hath made unto thee, O house of Israel, may be fulfilled.”11The Covenants of the Eternal FatherWhat are the “covenants of the Eternal Father” referred to by Moroni?
We read in the book of Abraham:“My name is Jehovah, and I know the end from the beginning; therefore my hand shall be over thee.“And I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee above measure, and make thy name great among all nations, and thou shalt be a blessing unto thy seed after thee, that in their hands they shall bear this ministry and Priesthood unto all nations.”12President Russell M. Nelson taught in a recent worldwide broadcast that “these surely are the latter days, and the Lord is hastening His work to gather Israel.
That gathering is the most important thing taking place on earth today.
Nothing else compares in magnitude, nothing else compares in importance, nothing else compares in majesty.
And if you choose to, if you want to, you can be a big part of it.
You can be a big part of something big, something grand, something majestic!“When we speak of the gathering, we are simply saying this fundamental truth: every one of our Heavenly Father’s children, on both sides of the veil, deserves to hear the message of the restored gospel of Jesus Christ.
They decide for themselves if they want to know more.”13That is what we are doing as members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints: we are seeking to bring the world to an understanding of—and a conversion to—the gospel of Jesus Christ.
We are the “latter-day gatherers.”14 Our mission is clear.
Brothers and sisters, let us be known as those who have taken Moroni’s promise to heart, prayed and received an answer to know that the Book of Mormon is true, and then shared that knowledge with others in word and, most important, in deed.The Book of Mormon’s Role in ConversionThe Book of Mormon contains the fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ.15 It leads us to the covenants of the Father, which if kept will assure us of His greatest gift—eternal life.16 The Book of Mormon is the keystone to the conversion of all of Heavenly Father’s sons and daughters.Quoting again from President Nelson: “As you … read daily from the Book of Mormon, you will learn the doctrine of the gathering, truths about Jesus Christ, His Atonement, and the fulness of His gospel not found in the Bible.
The Book of Mormon is central to the gathering of Israel.
In fact, if there were no Book of Mormon, the promised gathering of Israel would not occur.”17Let me conclude with the words of the Savior as He taught the Nephites of the promised blessings: “Ye are the children of the prophets; and ye are of the house of Israel; and ye are of the covenant which the Father made with your fathers, saying unto Abraham: And in thy seed shall all the kindreds of the earth be blessed.”18I testify that we are sons and daughters of God, the seed of Abraham, the house of Israel.
We are gathering Israel for the last time and are doing so with the Book of Mormon—a book that, combined with the Spirit of the Lord, is the most powerful tool of conversion.
We are led by the prophet of God, President Russell M. Nelson, who is directing the gathering of Israel in our day.
The Book of Mormon is true.
It has changed my life.
I promise you, as have Moroni and many prophets through the ages, that it can change yours.19 In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
One of my earliest memories is of sacrament meetings held in our home in Warrnambool, Australia.
Between 10 and 15 people attended our branch, and my father, one of three priesthood holders, regularly had the opportunity to bless the sacrament.
I remember the feelings I had as he humbly and carefully read the words of the sacrament prayers.
Often his voice trembled as he felt the Spirit.
He sometimes had to pause to control his emotions before completing the prayer.As a five-year-old, I could not understand the full meaning of what was being said or done; however, I knew something special was occurring.
I could feel the calm and reassuring influence of the Holy Ghost as my father contemplated the Savior’s love for us.The Savior taught: “This shall ye always do to those who repent and are baptized in my name; and ye shall do it in remembrance of my blood, which I have shed for you, that ye may witness unto the Father that ye do always remember me.
And if ye do always remember me ye shall have my Spirit to be with you” (3 Nephi 18:11).I invite all of us to consider five ways to increase the impact and power of our regular participation in the sacred ordinance of the sacrament, an ordinance that can help us become holy.1.
Prepare in AdvanceWe can begin our preparation for the sacrament well before sacrament meeting begins.
Saturday may be a good time to contemplate our spiritual progress and preparation.Mortality is an essential gift in our journey to become like our Heavenly Father.
Of necessity, it includes trials and challenges that provide opportunities for us to change and grow.
King Benjamin taught that “the natural man is an enemy to God, … and will be, forever and ever, unless he yields to the enticings of the Holy Spirit, and putteth off the natural man and becometh a saint through the atonement of Christ the Lord” (Mosiah 3:19).
Participation in the sacrament ordinance provides an opportunity to more fully yield our hearts and souls to God.In our preparation, our hearts become broken as we express gratitude for Christ’s Atonement, repent of our mistakes and shortcomings, and ask for the Father’s help in our continuing journey to become more like Him.
We can then look forward to the opportunity the sacrament provides to remember His sacrifice and renew our commitments to all the covenants we have made.2.
Arrive EarlyOur sacrament experience can be enhanced when we arrive well before the meeting and ponder as the prelude music is played.President Boyd K. Packer taught: “Prelude music, reverently played, is nourishment for the spirit.
It invites inspiration.”1 “This is not a time,” President Russell M. Nelson explained, “for conversation or transmission of messages but a period of prayerful meditation as leaders and members prepare spiritually for the sacrament.”23.
Sing and Learn from the Words of the Sacrament HymnThe sacrament hymn is an especially important part of our sacrament experience.
Music elevates our thoughts and feelings.
The sacrament hymn has even greater influence when we focus on the words and the powerful doctrine taught.
We learn much from words such as “Bruised, broken, torn for us,”3 “Let us remember and be sure our hearts and hands are clean and pure,”4 and “Where justice, love, and mercy meet in harmony divine!”5As we sing a hymn in preparation to partake of the emblems, the words can become part of our covenant commitment.
Consider, for example: “We love thee, Lord; our hearts are full.
We’ll walk thy chosen way.”64.
Spiritually Participate in the Sacrament Prayers (See Moroni 4–5)Instead of tuning out the familiar words of the sacrament prayers, we can learn much and feel even more as we participate spiritually by considering the commitments and associated blessings included in these sacred prayers.The bread and water are blessed and sanctified to our souls.
They remind us of the sacrifice of the Savior and that He can help us to become holy.The prayers explain that we partake of the bread in remembrance of the body of the Son, which He gave as a ransom to qualify all for resurrection, and we drink of the water in remembrance of the blood of the Son, which He freely shed so that we might be redeemed on condition of repentance.The prayers introduce the covenants with the phrase “that they are willing” (Moroni 4:3).
This phrase has so much potential power for us.
Are we willing to serve and participate?
Are we willing to change?
Are we willing to address our weaknesses?
Are we willing to reach out and bless others?
Are we willing to trust the Savior?As the promises are stated and as we partake, we confirm in our hearts that we are willing to:Take upon ourselves the name of Jesus Christ.Strive to keep all of His commandments.Always remember Him.The prayer concludes with a sublime invitation and promise: “That they may always have his Spirit to be with them” (Moroni 4:3).Paul wrote, “The fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, [and] temperance” (Galatians 5:22–23).
Beautiful blessings and gifts are available to us as we keep our covenants.5.
Ponder and Remember Him as the Sacrament Emblems Are PassedThe reverent moments as priesthood holders pass the sacrament can become sacred to us.As the bread is passed, we may contemplate that in the ultimate act of love for us, the Savior took “upon him death, that he may loose the bands of death which bind his people” (Alma 7:12).We may remember the glorious blessing of the Resurrection that “shall come to all, … both bond and free, both male and female, both the wicked and the righteous; and even there shall not so much as a hair of their heads be lost; but every thing shall be restored to its perfect frame” (Alma 11:44).As the water is passed, we may remember the plea of the Savior:“Behold, I, God, have suffered these things for all, that they might not suffer if they would repent; …“Which suffering caused myself, even God, the greatest of all, to tremble because of pain, and to bleed at every pore, and to suffer both body and spirit—and would that I might not drink the bitter cup, and shrink” (D&C 19:16, 18).We remember that He took “upon him [our] infirmities, that his bowels may be filled with mercy, according to the flesh, that he may know according to the flesh how to succor his people according to [our] infirmities” (Alma 7:12).As we consider our sacrament experience, we might ask ourselves:What will I do this week to better prepare for the sacrament?Could I contribute more to the reverence and revelation that can accompany the beginning of sacrament meeting?What doctrine was taught in the sacrament hymn?What did I hear and feel as I listened to the sacrament prayers?What did I think about as the sacrament was passed?Elder David A. Bednar taught: “The ordinance of the sacrament is a holy and repeated invitation to repent sincerely and to be renewed spiritually.
The act of partaking of the sacrament, in and of itself, does not remit sins.
But as we prepare conscientiously and participate in this holy ordinance with a broken heart and a contrite spirit, then the promise is that we may always have the Spirit of the Lord to be with us.
And by the sanctifying power of the Holy Ghost as our constant companion, we can always retain a remission of our sins.”7I testify of the multitude of blessings available to us as we increase our preparation for and spiritual participation in the ordinance of the sacrament.
I further testify that these blessings are available to us because of the love of our Father in Heaven and the infinite atoning sacrifice of His Beloved Son, Jesus Christ.
In His sacred name, even Jesus Christ, amen.
A good friend of mine who was a Church member tried for years to teach me the gospel of eternal families.
It wasn’t until I attended the São Paulo Temple open house in October 1978 and entered a sealing room that the doctrine of eternal families came into my heart, and for days I prayed to know if this was the true Church.I was not religious, but I had been raised by parents who were, and I had seen what was good in other religions.
At that point in my life, I thought all religions were acceptable to God.After my visit to the temple open house, I sought an answer through prayer, having faith and a sure confidence that God would answer me, which was His Church on earth.After a great spiritual struggle, I finally received a clear answer.
I was invited to be baptized.
My baptism happened on October 31, 1978, the night before a session of the São Paulo Temple dedication.I realized that the Lord knew and cared about me as He answered my prayers.The next morning my wife and I went to São Paulo to attend a dedicatory session of the temple.We were there, but I did not really know how to appreciate that wonderful opportunity yet.
The following day we attended an area conference.We had begun our journey in the Church, and we found good friends who welcomed us during this life transition.The new member classes we attended in our Sunday meetings each week were wonderful.
They filled us with knowledge and made us wish for the week to pass quickly so on Sunday we could have more of that spiritual nourishment.My wife and I eagerly looked forward to entering the temple to have our family sealed for eternity.
That happened one year and seven days after my baptism, which was a wonderful moment.
I felt as if the eternities had been divided at the altar between what came before and what came after the sealing.Having lived legally on the East Coast of the United States for a few years, I was acquainted with some of the cities, and they were mostly small.When I read or heard about the events leading up to the First Vision, crowds of people were mentioned, which did not make sense to me.Questions began to arise in my mind.
Why did the Church have to be restored in the United States and not in Brazil or Italy, the land of my ancestors?Where were those crowds of people who were involved in the revivals and in the confusion of religions—all of which had happened in such a peaceful and calm place?I asked a lot of people about it but got no answer.
I read everything I could in Portuguese and then in English but found nothing that could calm my heart.
I continued to search.In October 1984, I attended general conference as a counselor in a stake presidency.
After, I went to Palmyra, New York, eager to find the answer.Arriving there, I tried to understand: Why did the Restoration have to be here, and why such a spiritual uproar?
Where did all the people mentioned in Joseph’s account come from?
Why there?At that time, the most reasonable answer to me was because the U.S. Constitution guaranteed freedom.That morning I visited the Grandin Building, where the first edition of the Book of Mormon was printed.
I went to the Sacred Grove, where I prayed a lot.There was hardly anyone on the streets in that small town of Palmyra.
Where were the crowds of people that Joseph had mentioned?That afternoon I decided to go to the Peter Whitmer farm, and when I got there, I found a man at the window of a cabin.
He had an intense glow in his eyes.
I greeted him and then began to ask those same questions.He then asked me, “Do you have time?” I said yes.He explained that Lakes Erie and Ontario and, farther east, the Hudson River are located in that region.In the early 1800s they decided to build a canal for navigation which would pass through that region, stretching more than 300 miles (480 km) to reach the Hudson River.
It was a great enterprise for that time, and they could rely only on human labor and animal power.Palmyra was a center for some of that construction.
Builders needed skilled people, technicians, families, and their friends.
Many people began to pour in from the neighboring towns and places farther away, such as Ireland, to work on the canal.That was such a sacred and spiritual moment because I had finally found the crowd.
They brought their customs and their beliefs.
When the man mentioned their beliefs, my mind was enlightened and my spiritual eyes were opened by God.At that moment, I understood how the hand of God our Father, in His immense wisdom, had prepared in His plan a place to bring the young Joseph Smith, putting him in the midst of that religious confusion, because there, in the Hill Cumorah, the precious plates of the Book of Mormon were hidden.This was the stage of the Restoration, where the Father’s voice would be heard after nearly two millennia in a wonderful vision, talking to the boy Joseph Smith, when he went to the Sacred Grove to pray and heard: “This is My Beloved Son.
Hear Him!”1There he saw two personages, whose brightness and glory defy all description.
Yes, God revealed Himself to man again.
The darkness that covered the earth began to dissipate.The prophecies regarding the Restoration began to be fulfilled: “And I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, and to every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people.”2In a few short years, Joseph was led to the records of prophecies, covenants, and ordinances left by ancient prophets, our beloved Book of Mormon.The Church of Jesus Christ could not be restored without the eternal gospel revealed in the Book of Mormon as another testament of Jesus Christ, even the Son of God, the Lamb of God, who took away the sins of the world.Christ said to His people in Jerusalem:“And other sheep I have, which are not of this fold.”3“I am the good shepherd, and know my sheep, and am known of mine.”4When leaving the Whitmer farm, I do not remember saying good-bye.
I just remember tears running freely down my face.
The sun was setting in a beautiful sky.In my heart an immense joy and peace calmed my soul.
I was filled with gratitude.I now clearly understood why.
Once again the Lord had given me knowledge and light.During my trip home, scriptures continued to flow into my mind: the promises made to Father Abraham that in his seed all families of the earth would be blessed.5And for this, temples would be erected so that the divine power might be conferred upon man once again on the earth so that families could be united, not until death do us part but together for all eternity.“And it shall come to pass in the last days, that the mountain of the Lord’s house shall be established in the top of the mountains, and shall be exalted above the hills; and all nations shall flow unto it.”6If you who hear me have any questions in your heart, do not give up!I invite you to follow the example of the Prophet Joseph Smith when he read in James 1:5, “If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally.”What happened at Cumorah was an important part of the Restoration, as Joseph Smith received the plates which contained the Book of Mormon.
This book helps us get closer to Christ than any other book on earth.7I bear witness that the Lord raised up prophets, seers, and revelators to guide His kingdom in these latter days and that in His eternal plan families are meant to be together forever.
He cares about His children.
He answers our prayers.Because of His great love, Jesus Christ atoned for our sins.
He is the Savior of the world.
Of this I testify in the holy name of Jesus Christ, amen.
In the struggles of mortality, we are never left alone to accomplish our work, to fight our battles, to face adversity or unanswered questions.
Jesus Christ taught with a parable “that men ought always to pray, and not to faint.” He told of a judge who did not honor God and did not have any regard for mankind.
Repeatedly, a widow came before him, pleading to be avenged of her adversary.
For a while, the judge would offer her no relief.
But as a result of her faithful, consistent pleading, the judge finally thought, “Because this widow troubleth me, I will avenge her, lest by her continual coming she weary me.”Then Jesus explained:“Shall not God avenge his own elect, which cry day and night unto him … ?“I tell you that he will avenge them speedily.”And then the Lord asks this question: “Nevertheless when the Son of man cometh, shall he find faith on the earth?”1Prayer is essential to developing faith.
When the Lord comes again, will He find a people who know how to pray in faith and who are prepared to receive salvation?
“For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved.”2 We are children of a loving Heavenly Father, and we may enjoy personal communion with Him when we pray “with a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ”3 and then act in accordance with the answers we receive by the promptings of the Holy Ghost.
In faith we pray, we listen, and we obey, that we might learn to become one with the Father and the Son.4A prayer of faith opens the way to receive glorious heaven-sent blessings.
The Savior taught:“Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you:“For every one that asketh receiveth; and he that seeketh findeth; and to him that knocketh it shall be opened.”5If we expect to receive, we must ask, seek, and knock.
In his search for truth, Joseph Smith read from the scriptures, “If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him.”6 In answer to his prayer of faith, the heavens were opened.
God the Father and His Son, Jesus Christ, descended in glory and spoke to Joseph Smith, ushering in the dispensation of the fulness of times.
For us, miraculous healing, powerful protection, divine knowledge, liberating forgiveness, and precious peace are among the answers that come when we offer up a “soul’s sincere desire”7 in faith.We pray to our Father in the name of Jesus Christ, by the power of the Holy Ghost, thus engaging all three members of the Godhead in our utterances.We pray to our Heavenly Father and Him only because He is “God in heaven, who is infinite and eternal, from everlasting to everlasting … , the framer of heaven and earth, and all things which are in them.” As our Creator, He gave commandments that we “should love and serve him, the only living and true God, and that he should be the only being whom [we] should worship.”8As you pray to Heavenly Father in faith, “he will console you in your afflictions, … [and ye may] feast upon his love.”9 President Henry B. Eyring shared that his father’s prayers during a losing battle with cancer taught him the deeply personal relationship between God and His children:“When the pain became intense, we found him in the morning on his knees by the bed.
He had been too weak to get back into bed.
He told us he had been praying to ask his Heavenly Father why he had to suffer so much when he had always tried to be good.
He said a kindly answer came: ‘God needs brave sons.’“And so he soldiered on to the end, trusting that God loved him, listened to him, and would lift him up.
He was blessed to have known early and to never forget that a loving God is as close as a prayer.”10We pray in the name of Jesus Christ because our salvation is in Christ, and “there is none other name under heaven given among men, whereby we must be saved.”11 We come unto the Father in the sacred name of Jesus Christ12 because He is our Advocate with the Father and He does plead our cause.13 He suffered, bled, and died to glorify His Father, and His merciful petition on our behalf opens the way for each of us to obtain peace in this life and everlasting life in the world to come.
He does not want us to suffer longer or endure more trials than needed.
He does want us to turn to Him and allow Him to ease our burdens, to heal our hearts, and to cleanse our souls through His purifying power.
We never want to take His name in vain with rote and repetitious words.
Sincere prayers offered in the holy name of Jesus Christ are an expression of our devoted love, our eternal gratitude, and our steadfast desire to pray as He prayed, to do as He did, and to become as He is.We pray by the power of the Holy Ghost because “he that asketh in the Spirit asketh according to the will of God.”14 When we pray with faith, the Holy Ghost can guide our thoughts so that our words harmonize with the will of God.
“Ask not, that ye may consume it on your lusts, but ask with a firmness unshaken, that ye will yield to no temptation, but that ye will serve the true and living God.”15“It is not only important that we shall know how to pray, but it is equally important that we shall know how to receive the answer to our prayer, to be discerning, to be alert, to be able to see with clear vision and understand with clear intention God’s will and purpose concerning us.”16President Eyring shared: “I have had prayers answered.
Those answers were most clear when what I wanted was silenced by an overpowering need to know what God wanted.
It is then that the answer from a loving Heavenly Father can be spoken to the mind by the still, small voice and can be written on the heart.”17As the Savior entered the Garden of Gethsemane, His soul was exceedingly sorrowful, even unto death.
In His agony, the only one He could turn to was His Father.
He pleaded, “If it be possible, let this cup pass from me.” But He added, “Nevertheless not as I will, but as thou wilt.”18 Though sinless, the Savior was called upon to “[suffer] pains and afflictions and temptations of every kind,” including the sicknesses and infirmities of His people.
“[He] suffereth according to the flesh that he might take upon him the sins of his people, that he might blot out their transgressions according to the power of his deliverance.”19 Three times He prayed, “Father, thy will be done.”20 The cup was not removed.
In humble, faithful prayer He was strengthened to go forward and fulfill His divine mission to prepare for our salvation, that we might repent, believe, obey, and obtain the blessings of eternity.The answers we receive in prayer may not be what we would desire.
But in times of trouble, our prayers become a lifeline of love and tender mercy.
In our pleading, we may be strengthened to go forward and fulfill all that we have been ordained to do.
To His Saints living in perilous times, the Lord says, “Let your hearts be comforted … ; for all flesh is in mine hands; be still and know that I am God.”21Whether we pray privately, with our families, at church, in the temple, or wherever we are; whether we pray with broken hearts and contrite spirits seeking forgiveness, heavenly wisdom, or simply the strength to endure, we pray always with full hearts, drawn out unto God continually for our welfare and the welfare of those around us.
Sincere desires offered in a spirit of gratitude for abundant blessings and gratitude for the lessons of life instill in our hearts steadfast faith in Christ, a “brightness of hope, and a love of God and of all men.”22Prayer is a gift from God.
We need never feel lost or alone.
I testify that every moment of precious prayer can be holy time spent with our Father, in the name of the Son, by the power of the Holy Ghost.
In the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.
On June 14, 1989, due to some misinformation about the Church, the government of Ghana banned all activities of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints within that African country.
The government seized all Church property, and all missionary activity stopped.
The members of the Church, who refer to this period as “the freeze,” did their best to live the gospel without branch meetings or the support of missionaries.
There are many inspiring stories about how the members kept the light of the gospel shining by worshipping in their homes and looking after each other as home and visiting teachers.Eventually the misunderstanding was resolved, and on November 30, 1990, the freeze ended and normal Church activities resumed.1 Since then there has been an excellent relationship between the Church and the government of Ghana.Members who lived through the freeze are quick to point out the blessings that came from that unusual period.
The faith of many was strengthened through the adversity that they faced.
But one blessing of the freeze came in an unusual way.Nicholas Ofosu-Hene was a young policeman assigned to guard an LDS meetinghouse during the freeze.
His duty was to watch over the building at night.
When Nicholas first arrived at the meetinghouse, he saw that things had been scattered around, with papers, books, and furniture in disarray.
In the midst of this disorder, he saw a copy of the Book of Mormon.
He tried ignoring the book because he had been told that it was evil.
But he felt strangely attracted to it.
Finally, Nicholas could ignore the book no longer.
He picked it up.
He felt impelled to start reading it.
He read through the night, tears running down his cheeks as he read.The first time he picked it up, he read all of 1 Nephi.
The second time, he read all of 2 Nephi.
When he got to 2 Nephi chapter 25, he read the following: “And we talk of Christ, we rejoice in Christ, we preach of Christ, we prophesy of Christ, and we write according to our prophecies, that our children may know to what source they may look for a remission of their sins.”2At that point, Nicholas felt the Spirit so strongly that he started sobbing.
He realized that in the course of his reading he had received several spiritual promptings that this book was scripture, the most correct he had ever read.
He realized that the Latter-day Saints, contrary to what he had heard, strongly believe in Jesus Christ.
After the freeze ended and missionaries returned to Ghana, Nicholas, his wife, and his children joined the Church.
When I saw him last year, he was a police commander and was serving as the president of the Tamale Ghana District of the Church.
He says: “The Church has transformed my life.
… I thank the Almighty God for leading me into this gospel.”3Alibert Davies, another Ghanaian, accompanied a friend to one of our meetinghouses, where the friend had a presidency meeting.
While he waited for his friend, Alibert read a book he found nearby.
When the meeting ended, Alibert wanted to take the book home.
He was given permission to take not only that book but also a copy of the Book of Mormon.
When he got home, he started reading the Book of Mormon.
He could not put it down.
He read by candlelight until 3:00 a.m.
He did that for several nights, overwhelmed by what he read and what he felt.
Alibert is now a member of the Church.Angelo Scarpulla started his theological studies in his native Italy when he was 10.
He eventually became a priest and served his church with devotion.
At a certain point his faith started to waver, and he sought and received opportunities for further study.
The more he studied, however, the more concerned he became.
What he read and felt convinced him that there had been a general apostasy from the true doctrine taught by Jesus and the early Apostles.
Angelo searched for God’s true religion in various faiths but was left unsatisfied for many years.One day he encountered two members of the Church who were helping the missionaries find more people to teach.
He felt drawn to them and joyfully listened to their message.
Angelo willingly accepted a copy of the Book of Mormon.That evening he started reading the book.
He felt overcome with joy.
Through the Spirit, God gave Angelo an inner assurance that in the Book of Mormon he would find the truth for which he had been seeking for many years.
Sweet feelings flooded through him.
What he read and what he learned from the missionaries confirmed his conclusion that there had been a general apostasy, but he also learned that God’s true Church had been restored to the earth.
A short while later, Angelo was baptized into the Church.4 When I first met him, he was the president of the Rimini Branch of our Church in Italy.What Nicholas, Alibert, and Angelo experienced with the Book of Mormon is reminiscent of Parley P. Pratt’s experience:“I opened [the book] with eagerness.
… I read all day; eating was a burden, I had no desire for food; sleep was a burden when … night came, for I preferred reading to sleep.“As I read, the spirit of the Lord was upon me, and I knew and comprehended that the book was true, as plainly and manifestly as a man comprehends and knows that he exists.
My joy was now full, as it were, and I rejoiced sufficiently to more than pay me for all the sorrows, sacrifices and toils of my life.”5Some people have such a powerful experience with the Book of Mormon the first time they open it, but for others the witness of the truthfulness comes more gradually as they read and pray about it.
That was my case.
I first read the Book of Mormon as a teenage seminary student.
This is the copy of the Book of Mormon that I read.
I cannot tell you the exact time or place that it happened, but somewhere during that reading, I started sensing something.
There was a warmth and a spirit that came every time I opened the book.
The feeling grew as I continued my reading.
That feeling continues to this day.
Every time I open the Book of Mormon, it is like turning on a switch—the Spirit flows into my heart and soul.For yet others, a testimony of the Book of Mormon comes more slowly, after much study and prayer.
I have a friend who read the Book of Mormon searching to know if it was true.
He applied the invitation in Moroni to ask God with a sincere heart, with real intent and faith in Christ, if the Book of Mormon is true.6 But he did not immediately get the promised spiritual answer.
However, one day as he was deep in thought, driving down the road, the Spirit testified to him of the truth of the Book of Mormon.
So happy and overwhelmed was he that he rolled down the car window and yelled, to no one in particular and yet to all the world, “It’s true!”Whether our testimony of the Book of Mormon comes the first time we open it or over a period of time, it will influence us all of our days if we continue to read it and apply its teachings.
President Ezra Taft Benson taught: “There is a power in the book which will begin to flow into your lives the moment you begin a serious study of the book.
You will find greater power to resist temptation.
You will find the power to avoid deception.
You will find the power to stay on the strait and narrow path.”7I encourage everyone receiving this message, including the Aaronic Priesthood bearers convened in this meeting tonight, to discover the power of the Book of Mormon.
As President Thomas S. Monson has encouraged: “Read the Book of Mormon.
Ponder its teachings.
Ask Heavenly Father if it is true.”8 During that process you will feel the Spirit of God in your lives.
That Spirit will be part of your testimony that the Book of Mormon is true, that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, and that The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is God’s true Church on the earth today.
That testimony will help you resist temptation.9 It will prepare you for “the great call of diligence … to labor in the vineyards of the Lord.”10 It will stand as a sure anchor when accusations or slanderous statements are used to challenge your faith, and it will be a rock-solid foundation when you are challenged with questions you cannot answer, at least immediately.
You will be able to discern truth from error, and you will feel the assurance of the Holy Ghost reconfirming your testimony over and over again as you continue to read the Book of Mormon throughout your life.I also encourage all parents hearing or reading this message to make the Book of Mormon an important part of your home.
As our children were growing, we read the Book of Mormon as we ate breakfast.
This is the bookmark that we used.
On the front is a quote from President Benson promising that God would pour out a blessing upon us as we read the Book of Mormon.11 On the back is this promise from President Marion G. Romney, formerly a counselor in the First Presidency: “I feel certain that if, in our homes, parents will read from the Book of Mormon prayerfully and regularly, both by themselves and with their children, the spirit of that great book will come to permeate our homes and all who dwell therein.
… The spirit of contention will depart.
Parents will counsel their children in greater love and wisdom.
Children will be more responsive and submissive to the counsel of their parents.
Righteousness will increase.
Faith, hope, and charity—the pure love of Christ—will abound in our homes and lives, bringing in their wake peace, joy, and happiness.”12Now, many years after our children have left home and are raising their own families, we can see clearly the fulfillment of President Romney’s promise.
Our family is far from perfect, but we can testify of the power of the Book of Mormon and the blessings that reading it has brought and continues to bring into the lives of our whole family.The greatest power of the Book of Mormon is its impact in bringing us closer to Jesus Christ.
It is a strong witness of Him and His redeeming mission.13 Through it we come to understand the majesty and power of His Atonement.14 It teaches His doctrine clearly.15 And because of the magnificent chapters describing the visit of the risen Christ to the Nephites, we see and experience Him loving, blessing, and teaching those people and come to understand that He will do the same for us if we come to Him by living His gospel.16Brethren, I testify of the power in the Book of Mormon.
Whether reading it in English, Italian, or French, in print or on an electronic device, I have found the same wonderful spirit flowing from its chapters and verses into my life.
I testify of its ability to draw us closer to Christ.
I pray that each of us will take full advantage of the power that is in this wonderful book of scripture.
In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
The Savior clearly understood His mission to rescue our Heavenly Father’s children, for He declared:“The Son of man is come to save that which was lost.
…“[For] it is not the will of your Father which is in heaven, that one of these little ones should perish.”1My angel mother, Jasmine Bennion Arnold, clearly understood her role to help in the rescue of our Heavenly Father’s wounded or lost sheep, including her own children and grandchildren.
What a marvelous role grandparents can play in the lives of their grandchildren.Mom was usually assigned to visit teach those struggling with their faith, the less-active and part-member families; however, her flock included several others that no one had assigned her to visit.
Generally her visits were not just once a month, as she quietly listened, ministered to the sick, and gave loving encouragement.
The last several months of Mom’s life, she was homebound, so she spent hours writing them letters, expressing her love, bearing her testimony, and lifting those who came to visit.As we go to the rescue, God gives us power, encouragement, and blessings.
When He commanded Moses to rescue the children of Israel, Moses was afraid, just as many of us are afraid.
Moses excused himself, saying, “I am not eloquent, … but I am slow of speech, and of a slow tongue.”2The Lord reassured Moses:“Who hath made man’s mouth?
… have not I the Lord?“Now therefore go, and I will be with thy mouth, and teach thee what thou shalt say.”3In effect, the Lord told Moses, “You can do it!” And you know what, so can we!Let me share four principles that will help in our rescue efforts.Principle 1: We Must Not Delay Going to the RescueElder Alejandro Patanía, a former Area Seventy, relates the story of his younger brother Daniel, who sailed out to sea to go fishing with his crew.
After a time, Daniel received an urgent warning that a major storm was rapidly approaching.
Immediately, Daniel and his crew started for port.As the storm intensified, the engine of a nearby fishing boat ceased to function.
Daniel’s crew hooked a cable to the disabled boat and began towing it to safety.
They radioed for help, knowing that, with the increasing storm, they needed immediate assistance.As loved ones anxiously waited, representatives from the coast guard, the fishermen’s association, and the navy met to decide the best rescue strategy.
Some wanted to leave right away but were told to wait for a plan.
While those in the storm continued pleading for help, the representatives continued meeting, trying to agree on the proper protocol and a plan.When a rescue group was finally organized, one last desperate call came.
The raging storm had broken the cable between the two boats, and Daniel’s crew was going back to see if they could save their fellow fishermen.
In the end, both ships sank, and their crews, including Elder Patanía’s brother Daniel, were lost.Elder Patanía compared this tragedy to the Lord’s admonition when He said, “Ye [have] not strengthened, … [or] brought again that which was driven away, … [or] sought that which was lost; … and I will require my flock at [your] hand.”4Elder Patanía explained that, while we must be organized in our councils, quorums, auxiliaries, and even as individuals, we must not delay going to the rescue.
Sometimes many weeks pass as we talk about how to help families or individuals who are in special need.
We deliberate about who will visit them and the approach to take.
Meanwhile, our lost brothers and sisters continue needing and sometimes even calling and pleading for help.
We must not delay.Principle 2: We Must Never Give UpPresident Thomas S. Monson, who has sounded the clarion call to go to the rescue, noted, “Our members need to be reminded that it is never too late when it comes to our … less-active members … who could have been considered a hopeless cause.”5Like many of you, I have shared the gospel with some who are soon baptized or activated, and others—such as my nonmember friend Tim and his less-active wife, Charlene—take much more time.For over 25 years I engaged Tim in gospel conversations and took Tim and Charlene to temple open houses.
Others joined the rescue; however, Tim declined each invitation made to meet with the missionaries.One weekend I was assigned to preside at a stake conference.
I had asked the stake president to fast and pray about whom we should visit.
I was shocked when he handed me the name of my friend Tim.
When Tim’s bishop, the stake president, and I knocked on the door, Tim opened it, looked at me, looked at the bishop, and then said, “Bishop, I thought you told me you were going to bring somebody special!”Then Tim laughed and said, “Come on in, Merv.” A miracle occurred that day.
Tim has now been baptized, and he and Charlene have been sealed in the temple.
We must never give up.Principle 3: How Great Shall Be Your Joy If You Bring Save It Be One Soul unto ChristMany years ago in a general conference, I spoke of how José de Souza Marques understood the words of the Savior that “if any man among you be strong in the Spirit, let him take with him him that is weak, that he may … become strong also.”6Brother Marques knew the name of every sheep in his priests quorum and realized that Fernando was missing.
He hunted for Fernando at his house, then looked for him at a friend’s home, and even went to the beach.He finally found Fernando surfing in the ocean.
He did not hesitate until the boat sank, like in Daniel’s story.
He immediately entered the water to rescue his lost sheep, bringing him home rejoicing.7He then ensured through continual ministering that Fernando never again would leave the fold.8Allow me to update you on what has happened since Fernando was rescued and to share the joy that came from rescuing just one lost sheep.
Fernando married his sweetheart, Maria, in the temple.
They now have 5 children and 13 grandchildren, all of whom are active in the Church.
Many other relatives and their families have also joined the Church.
Together they have submitted thousands of their ancestors’ names to receive temple ordinances, and the blessings just keep coming.Fernando is now serving as bishop for the third time, and he continues to rescue, just like he was rescued.
He recently shared, “In our ward, we have 32 active young men of the Aaronic Priesthood, 21 of whom were rescued in the last 18 months.” As individuals, families, quorums, auxiliaries, classes, and home and visiting teachers, we can do that!Principle 4: No Matter Our Age, We Are All Called to Go to the RescuePresident Henry B. Eyring declared, “Whatever our age, capacity, Church calling, or location, we are as one called to the work to help [the Savior] in His harvest of souls until He comes again.”9Each day more and more of our children, our youth, our young single adults, and our adult members of all ages are heeding the Savior’s clarion call to go to the rescue.
Thank you for your efforts!
Allow me to share some examples:Amy, age 7, invited her friend Arianna and her family to her annual Primary sacrament meeting program.
A few months later, Arianna and her family were baptized.Allan, a young single adult, felt inspired to share the Church videos, Mormon Messages, and verses of scripture with all his friends using social media.Sister Reeves began sharing the gospel with each telemarketer who called.James invited his nonmember friend Shane to his daughter’s baptism.Spencer sent his less-active sister a link to President Russell M. Nelson’s conference address and reported, “She read the talk, and a window was opened.”The Lord has provided all of the tools necessary for us to go to the rescue of our less-active and nonmember friends.
We can all do it!I invite each of you to heed the Savior’s call to go to the rescue.
We can do it!I solemnly testify that I know Jesus is the Good Shepherd, that He loves us, and that He will bless us as we go to the rescue.
I know He lives; I know it.
In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
Modern revelation defines truth as a “knowledge of things as they are, and as they were, and as they are to come” (Doctrine and Covenants 93:24).
That is a perfect definition for the plan of salvation and “The Family: A Proclamation to the World.”We live in a time of greatly expanded and disseminated information.
But not all of this information is true.
We need to be cautious as we seek truth and choose sources for that search.
We should not consider secular prominence or authority as qualified sources of truth.
We should be cautious about relying on information or advice offered by entertainment stars, prominent athletes, or anonymous internet sources.
Expertise in one field should not be taken as expertise on truth in other subjects.We should also be cautious about the motivation of the one who provides information.
That is why the scriptures warn us against priestcraft (see 2 Nephi 26:29).
If the source is anonymous or unknown, the information may also be suspect.Our personal decisions should be based on information from sources that are qualified on the subject and free from selfish motivations.I.When we seek the truth about religion, we should use spiritual methods appropriate for that search: prayer, the witness of the Holy Ghost, and study of the scriptures and the words of modern prophets.
I am always sad when I hear of one who reports a loss of religious faith because of secular teachings.
Those who once had spiritual vision can suffer from self-inflicted spiritual blindness.
As President Henry B. Eyring said, “Their problem does not lie in what they think they see; it lies in what they cannot yet see.”1The methods of science lead us to what we call scientific truth.
But “scientific truth” is not the whole of life.
Those who do not learn “by study and also by faith” (Doctrine and Covenants 88:118) limit their understanding of truth to what they can verify by scientific means.
That puts artificial limits on their pursuit of truth.President James E. Faust said: “Those who have been [baptized] put their eternal soul at risk by carelessly pursuing only the secular source of learning.
We believe that The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has the fulness of the gospel of Christ, which gospel is the essence of truth and eternal enlightenment.”2We find true and enduring joy by coming to know and acting upon the truth about who we are, the meaning of mortal life, and where we are going when we die.
Those truths cannot be learned by scientific or secular methods.II.I will now speak of restored gospel truths that are fundamental to the doctrine of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
Please consider these truths carefully.
They explain much about our doctrine and practices, perhaps including some things not yet understood.There is a God, who is the loving Father of the spirits of all who have ever lived or will live.Gender is eternal.
Before we were born on this earth, we all lived as male or female spirits in the presence of God.We have just heard the Tabernacle Choir at Temple Square sing “I Will Follow God’s Plan.”3 That is the plan God established so that all of His spirit children could progress eternally.
That plan is vital to each of us.Under that plan, God created this earth as a place where His beloved spirit children could be born into mortality to receive a physical body and to have the opportunity for eternal progress by making righteous choices.To be meaningful, mortal choices had to be made between contesting forces of good and evil.
There had to be opposition and, therefore, an adversary, who was cast out because of rebellion and was allowed to tempt God’s children to act contrary to God’s plan.The purpose of God’s plan was to give His children the opportunity to choose eternal life.
This could be accomplished only by experience in mortality and, after death, by postmortal growth in the spirit world.In the course of mortal life, we would all be soiled by sin as we yielded to the evil temptations of the adversary, and we would eventually die.
We accepted those challenges in reliance upon the plan’s assurance that God our Father would provide a Savior, His Only Begotten Son, who would rescue us by a universal resurrection to an embodied life after death.
The Savior would also provide an atonement to pay the price for all to be cleansed from sin on the conditions He prescribed.
Those conditions included faith in Christ, repentance, baptism, the gift of the Holy Ghost, and other ordinances performed by priesthood authority.God’s great plan of happiness provides a perfect balance between eternal justice and the mercy we can obtain through the Atonement of Jesus Christ.
It also enables us to be transformed into new creatures in Christ.A loving God reaches out to each of us.
We know that through His love and because of the Atonement of His Only Begotten Son, “all mankind may be saved, by obedience to the laws and ordinances of [His] Gospel” (Articles of Faith 1:3; emphasis added).The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is properly known as a family-centered Church.
But what is not well understood is that our family-centeredness is focused on more than mortal relationships.
Eternal relationships are also fundamental to our theology.
“The family is ordained of God.”4 Under the great plan of our loving Creator, the mission of His restored Church is to help the children of God achieve the supernal blessing of exaltation in the celestial kingdom, which can be attained only through an eternal marriage between a man and a woman (see Doctrine and Covenants 131:1–3).
We affirm the Lord’s teachings that “gender is an essential characteristic of individual premortal, mortal, and eternal identity and purpose” and that “marriage between man and woman is essential to His eternal plan.”5Finally, God’s love is so great that, except for the few who deliberately become sons of perdition, He has provided a destiny of glory for all of His children.
“All of His children” includes all who are dead.
We perform ordinances for them by proxy in our temples.
The purpose of the Church of Jesus Christ is to qualify His children for the highest degree of glory, which is exaltation or eternal life.
For those who do not desire or qualify for that, God has provided other, though lesser, kingdoms of glory.Anyone who understands these eternal truths can understand why we members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints think as we do and do as we do.III.I will now mention some applications of these eternal truths, which can be understood only in light of God’s plan.First, we honor individual agency.
Most are aware of the restored Church’s great efforts to promote religious freedom in the United States and across the world.
These efforts do not promote just our own interests but, according to His plan, seek to help all of God’s children enjoy freedom to choose.Second, we are a missionary people.
We are sometimes asked why we send missionaries to so many nations, even among Christian populations.
We receive the same question about why we give many millions of dollars of humanitarian aid to persons who are not members of our Church and why we do not link this aid to our missionary efforts.
We do this because we esteem all mortals as children of God—our brothers and sisters—and we want to share our spiritual and temporal abundance with everyone.Third, mortal life is sacred to us.
Our commitment to God’s plan requires us to oppose abortion and euthanasia.Fourth, some are troubled by some of our Church’s positions on marriage and children.
Our knowledge of God’s revealed plan of salvation requires us to oppose current social and legal pressures to retreat from traditional marriage and to make changes that confuse or alter gender or homogenize the differences between men and women.
We know that the relationships, identities, and functions of men and women are essential to accomplish God’s great plan.Fifth, we also have a distinctive perspective on children.
We look on the bearing and nurturing of children as part of God’s plan and a joyful and sacred duty of those given the power to participate in it.
In our view, the ultimate treasures on earth and in heaven are our children and our posterity.
Therefore, we must teach and contend for principles and practices that provide the best conditions for the development and happiness of children—all children.Finally, we are beloved children of a Heavenly Father, who has taught us that maleness and femaleness, marriage between a man and a woman, and the bearing and nurturing of children are all essential to His great plan of happiness.
Our positions on these fundamentals frequently provoke opposition to the Church.
We consider that inevitable.
Opposition is part of the plan, and Satan’s most strenuous opposition is directed at whatever is most important to God’s plan.
He seeks to destroy God’s work.
His prime methods are to discredit the Savior and His divine authority, to erase the effects of the Atonement of Jesus Christ, to discourage repentance, to counterfeit revelation, and to contradict individual accountability.
He also seeks to confuse gender, to distort marriage, and to discourage childbearing—especially by parents who will raise children in truth.IV.The work of the Lord is going forward despite the organized and constant opposition that confronts us as we strive to practice the teachings of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
For those who falter under that opposition, I offer these suggestions.Remember the principle of repentance made possible by the power of the Atonement of Jesus Christ.
As Elder Neal A. Maxwell urged, don’t be among those “who would rather try to change the Church than to change themselves.”6As Elder Jeffrey R. Holland urged:“Hold fast to what you already know and stand strong until additional knowledge comes.
…“… In this Church, what we know will always trump what we do not know.”7Exercise faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, which is the first principle of the gospel.Finally, seek help.
Our Church leaders love you and seek spiritual guidance to help you.
We provide many resources such as you will find through LDS.org and other supports for gospel study in the home.
We also have ministering brothers and sisters called to give loving assistance.Our loving Heavenly Father wants His children to have the joy that is the purpose of our creation.
That joyful destiny is eternal life, which we can obtain by pressing forward along what our prophet, President Russell M. Nelson, often calls “the covenant path.” Here is what he said in his first message as President of the Church: “Keep on the covenant path.
Your commitment to follow the Savior by making covenants with Him and then keeping those covenants will open the door to every spiritual blessing and privilege available to men, women, and children everywhere.”8I solemnly testify that the things I have said are true, and they are made possible by the teachings and the Atonement of Jesus Christ, who makes it all possible under the great plan of God, our Eternal Father.
In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
Mistakes are a fact of life.
Learning to skillfully play the piano is essentially impossible without making thousands of mistakes—maybe even a million.
To learn a foreign language, one must face the embarrassment of making thousands of mistakes—maybe even a million.
Even the world’s greatest athletes never stop making mistakes.“Success,” it has been said, “isn’t the absence of failure, but going from failure to failure without any loss of enthusiasm.”1With his invention of the light bulb, Thomas Edison purportedly said, “I didn’t fail 1,000 times.
The light bulb was an invention with 1,000 steps.”2 Charles F. Kettering called failures “finger posts on the road to achievement.”3 Hopefully, each mistake we make becomes a lesson in wisdom, turning stumbling blocks into stepping-stones.Nephi’s unwavering faith helped him go from failure to failure until he finally obtained the brass plates.
It took Moses 10 attempts before he finally found success in fleeing Egypt with the Israelites.We may wonder—if both Nephi and Moses were on the Lord’s errand, why didn’t the Lord intervene and help them achieve success on their first try?
Why did He allow them—and why does He allow us—to flounder and fail in our attempts to succeed?
Among many important answers to that question, here are a few:First, the Lord knows that “these things shall give [us] experience, and shall be for [our] good.”4Second, to allow us to “taste the bitter, that [we] may know to prize the good.”5Third, to prove that “the battle is the Lord’s,”6 and it is only by His grace that we can accomplish His work and become like Him.7Fourth, to help us develop and hone scores of Christlike attributes that cannot be refined except through opposition8 and “in the furnace of affliction.”9So, amid a life full of stumbling blocks and imperfection, we all are grateful for second chances.In 1970, as a new freshman at BYU, I enrolled in a beginning course on the essentials of physics taught by Jae Ballif, an outstanding professor.
After finishing each unit of the course, he would administer an exam.
If a student received a C and wanted a better grade, Professor Ballif would allow the student to take a modified exam covering the same material.
If the student received a B on the second attempt and was still unsatisfied, he or she could take the test a third time and a fourth, and so on.
By allowing me numerous second chances, he helped me excel and finally earn an A in his class.He was an uncommonly wise professor who inspired his students to keep trying—to consider failure as a tutor, not as a tragedy, and to not fear failure but to learn from it.Recently I telephoned this great man 47 years after taking his physics course.
I asked him why he was willing to allow students unlimited attempts to improve their grade.
His response: “I wanted to be on the same side as the students.”While we are grateful for second chances following mistakes, or failures of the mind, we stand all amazed at the Savior’s grace in giving us second chances in overcoming sin, or failures of the heart.No one is more on our side than the Savior.
He allows us to take and keep retaking His exams.
To become like Him will require countless second chances in our day-to-day struggles with the natural man, such as controlling appetites, learning patience and forgiveness, overcoming slothfulness, and avoiding sins of omission, just to name a few.
If to err is human nature, how many failures will it take us until our nature is no longer human but divine?
Thousands?
More likely a million.Knowing that the strait and narrow path would be strewn with trials and that failures would be a daily occurrence for us, the Savior paid an infinite price to give us as many chances as it would take to successfully pass our mortal probation.
The opposition which He allows can often seem insurmountable and almost impossible to bear, yet He doesn’t leave us without hope.To keep our hope resilient as we face life’s trials, the Savior’s grace is ever ready and ever present.
His grace is a “divine means of help or strength, … an enabling power that allows men and women to lay hold on eternal life and exaltation after they have expended their own best efforts.”10 His grace and His loving eye are upon us throughout our entire journey as He inspires, lightens burdens, strengthens, delivers, protects, heals, and otherwise “succor[s] his people,” even as they stumble along the strait and narrow path.11Repentance is God’s ever-accessible gift that allows and enables us to go from failure to failure without any loss of enthusiasm.
Repentance isn’t His backup plan in the event we might fail.
Repentance is His plan, knowing that we will.
This is the gospel of repentance, and as President Russell M. Nelson has observed, it will be “a lifetime curriculum.”12In this lifetime curriculum of repentance, the sacrament is the Lord’s designated way of providing continual access to His forgiveness.
If we partake with a broken heart and a contrite spirit, He proffers us weekly pardon as we progress from failure to failure along the covenant path.
For “notwithstanding their sins, my bowels are filled with compassion towards them.”13But just how many times will He forgive us?
How long is His long-suffering?
On one occasion Peter asked the Savior, “Lord, how oft shall my brother sin against me, and I forgive him?
till seven times?”14Presumably, Peter thought seven was a sufficiently high number to emphasize the folly of forgiving too many times and that benevolence should have its limits.
In response, the Savior essentially told Peter to not even count—to not establish limits on forgiveness.“Jesus saith unto him, I say not unto thee, Until seven times: but, Until seventy times seven.”15Obviously, the Savior was not establishing an upper limit of 490.
That would be analogous to saying that partaking of the sacrament has a limit of 490, and then on the 491st time, a heavenly auditor intercedes and says, “I’m so sorry, but your repentance card just expired—from this point forward, you’re on your own.”The Lord used the math of seventy times seven as a metaphor of His infinite Atonement, His boundless love, and His limitless grace.
“Yea, and as often as my people repent will I forgive them their trespasses against me.”16That doesn’t mean that the sacrament becomes a license to sin.
That’s one reason this phrase was included in the book of Moroni: “But as oft as they repented and sought forgiveness, with real intent, they were forgiven.”17Real intent implies with real effort and real change.
“Change” is the principal word the Guide to the Scriptures uses to define repentance: “A change of mind and heart that brings a fresh attitude toward God, oneself, and life in general.”18 That kind of change results in spiritual growth.
Our success, then, isn’t going from failure to failure, but growing from failure to failure without any loss of enthusiasm.Concerning change, consider this simple insight: “Things that don’t change remain the same.” This obvious truth isn’t meant to insult your intelligence but is the profound wisdom of President Boyd K. Packer, who then added, “And when we are through changing—we’re through.”19Because we don’t want to be through until we become as our Savior is,20 we need to continue getting up each time we fall, with a desire to keep growing and progressing despite our weaknesses.
In our weakness, He reassures us, “My grace is sufficient for thee: for my strength is made perfect in weakness.”21Only with time-lapse photography or growth charts can we discern our physical growth.
Likewise, our spiritual growth is usually imperceptible except through the rearview lens of time.
It would be wise to regularly take an introspective look through that lens to recognize our progress and inspire us to “press forward with a steadfastness in Christ, having a perfect brightness of hope.”22I am eternally grateful for the loving-kindness, patience, and long-suffering of Heavenly Parents and the Savior, who allow us countless second chances on our journey back to Their presence.
In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
Dear sisters, how we love you!
As we watched that beautiful video, did you see your own hand reaching out to help someone along that covenant path?
I was thinking about a young Primary girl named Brynn who has only one hand, and yet she uses that hand to reach out to bless her family and her friends—Latter-day Saints and those of other faiths.
Isn’t she beautiful?
And so are you!
Sisters, we can offer hands to help and hearts to hasten Heavenly Father’s wonderful work.Just as our faithful sisters in the scriptures, such as Eve, Sarah, Mary, and many others, knew their identity and purpose, Brynn knows that she is a daughter of God.1 We too can know of our own divine heritage as beloved daughters of God and the vital work He has for us to do.The Savior taught, “If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine.”2 What do we need to know and do “to live with him someday”?3 We can learn from the story of the rich young man who asked Jesus what he needed to do in order to receive eternal life.Jesus answered him, “If thou wilt enter into life, keep the commandments.”The young man asked Him which ones he should keep.
Jesus then reminded him of several of the Ten Commandments we are all familiar with.The young man responded, “All these things have I kept from my youth up: what lack I yet?”Jesus said, “If thou wilt be perfect, go and sell that thou hast, and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come and follow me.”4Jesus called him to become a part of His work—the work of a disciple.
Our work is the same.
We are to “lay aside the things of [the] world, … cleave unto [our] covenants,”5 and come unto Christ and follow Him.
That’s what disciples do!Now, sisters, let’s not start beating ourselves up because the Savior spoke to the rich young man about becoming perfect.
The word perfect in this account was translated from a Greek word that means “complete.” As we try our best to move forward along the covenant path, we become more complete and perfect in this life.Like the rich young man in Jesus’s day, sometimes we are tempted to give up or turn back because maybe we think we can’t do it alone.
And we are right!
We cannot do the difficult things we have been asked to do without help.
Help comes through the Atonement of Jesus Christ, the guidance of the Holy Ghost, and the helping hands of others.A faithful single sister recently testified that through the Atonement, she found strength to use her helping hands and willing heart to raise the four children her sister had left behind when she died of cancer.
That reminded me of something Elder Neal A. Maxwell said: “All the easy things that the Church has had to do have been done.
From now on, it’s high adventure, and followership is going to be tested in some interesting ways.”6 You have been sent to earth in this dispensation of time because of who you are and what you have been prepared to do!
Regardless of what Satan would try to persuade us to think about who we are, our true identity is that of a disciple of Jesus Christ!Mormon was a true disciple who lived in a day when “every heart was hardened, … and there never had been so great wickedness among all the children of Lehi.”7 How would you like to have lived in that day?
And yet Mormon boldly declared, “Behold, I am a disciple of Jesus Christ, the Son of God.”8Don’t you love Mormon?
He knew who he was and what his mission was and was not distracted by the evil that surrounded him.
In fact, he considered his calling to be a gift.9Think what a blessing it is to be called to give our gift of daily discipleship to the Lord, declaring in word and deed, “Behold, I am a disciple of Jesus Christ!”I love the story President Boyd K. Packer told of a dear sister who was ridiculed for following the prophet’s counsel to store food.
The one who criticized suggested that if times became desperate, her leaders would ask her to share her food storage with others.
Her simple and resolute response as a true disciple was, “At least I will have something to bring.”10I love the women of the Church, young and old.
I have seen your strength.
I have seen your faith.
You have something to give and are willing to give it.
You do this without fanfare or publicity, drawing attention to the God we worship, not yourselves, and with no thought of what you will receive.11 That’s what disciples do!I recently met a young woman in the Philippines whose family became less active in the Church when she was only 7 years old, leaving her alone to walk a dangerous road to church week after week.
She told how at age 14 she decided that she would stay true to her covenants so she would be worthy to raise her future family in a home “blessed by the strength of priesthood pow’r.”12 The best way to strengthen a home, current or future, is to keep covenants, promises we’ve made to each other and to God.That’s what disciples do!A faithful Japanese sister and her husband visited our mission in Korea.
She didn’t speak Korean and was limited in her ability to speak English, but she had a willing heart to use her unique gifts and helping hands to do the Lord’s work.
That’s what disciples do!
She taught our missionaries how to do a simple piece of origami—a mouth that could open and shut.
She then used the few English words she knew to teach the missionaries to “open their mouths” to share the gospel—a lesson they will never forget, nor will I.Visualize for a minute you and me standing together with the other millions of sisters and brothers in His Church, going forth boldly, doing what disciples do—serving and loving like the Savior.
What does it mean to you to be a disciple of Jesus Christ?Mormon Helping Hands vests and shirts have been worn by hundreds of thousands of selfless disciples of Jesus Christ who have embraced the opportunity to provide temporal service.
But there are other ways to serve as devoted disciples.
Imagine with me some of the possible spiritual “help wanted” signs related to the work of salvation:Help wanted: parents to bring up their children in light and truthHelp wanted: daughters and sons, sisters and brothers, aunts and uncles, cousins, grandparents, and true friends to serve as mentors and offer helping hands along the covenant pathHelp wanted: those who listen to the promptings of the Holy Ghost and act on impressions receivedHelp wanted: those who live the gospel daily in small and simple waysHelp wanted: family history and temple workers to link families eternallyHelp wanted: missionaries and members to spread the “good news”—the gospel of Jesus ChristHelp wanted: rescuers to find those who have lost their wayHelp wanted: covenant keepers to stand firm for truth and rightHelp wanted: true disciples of the Lord Jesus ChristYears ago, Elder M. Russell Ballard issued a clarion call to the sisters of the Church when he said:“Between now and the day the Lord comes again, He needs women in every family, in every ward, in every community, in every nation who will step forward in righteousness and say by their words and their actions, ‘Here am I, send me.’“My question is, ‘Will you be one of those women?’”13I hope each of us can answer with a resounding “Yes!” I close with the words of a Primary song:We are cov’nant [daughters] with a gift to give.We will teach the gospel by the way we live.With each word and action, we will testify:We believe, and we serve Jesus Christ.14As true disciples, may we offer our willing hearts and our helping hands to hasten His work.
It does not matter if, like Brynn, we have only one hand.
It does not matter if we are not yet perfect and complete.
We are devoted disciples who reach out and help each other along the way.
Our sisterhood reaches across the generations to those faithful sisters who have walked before.
Together, as sisters and in unity with living prophets, seers, and revelators with restored priesthood keys, we can walk as one, as disciples, as servants with willing hearts and hands to hasten the work of salvation.
As we do so, we will become like the Savior.
I so testify in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
Forty-one years ago I climbed into the driver’s seat of an 18-wheel semitruck with my beautiful wife, Jan, and our infant son, Scotty.
We were taking a heavy load of construction materials across several states.In those days there were no seat-belt restrictions or infant car seats.
My wife held our precious son in her arms.
Her comment “We sure are high off the ground” should have given me a clue about her feelings of apprehension.As we made our descent over historic Donner Pass, a steep section of highway, the cab of the semi suddenly and unexpectedly filled with thick smoke.
It was difficult to see, and we could hardly breathe.With a heavy rig, brakes alone are not enough to rapidly decrease speed.
Using the engine brakes and gearing down, I frantically attempted to stop.Just as I was pulling to the side of the road, but before we had come to a full stop, my wife opened the door of the cab and jumped out with our baby in her arms.
I watched helplessly as they tumbled in the dirt.As soon as I had the semi stopped, I bolted from the smoking cab.
With adrenaline pumping, I ran through the rocks and weeds and held them in my arms.
Jan’s forearms and elbows were battered and bleeding, but thankfully she and our son were both breathing.
I just held them close as the dust settled there on the side of the highway.As my heartbeat normalized and I caught my breath, I blurted out, “What in the world were you thinking?
Do you know how dangerous that was?
You could have been killed!”She looked back at me, with tears running down her smoke-smudged cheeks, and said something that pierced my heart and still rings in my ears: “I was just trying to save our son.”I realized in that moment she thought the engine was on fire, fearing the truck would explode and we would die.
I, however, knew it was an electrical failure—hazardous but not fatal.
I looked at my precious wife, softly rubbing the head of our infant son, and wondered what kind of woman would do something so courageous.This situation could have been as emotionally hazardous as our literal engine failure.
Gratefully, after enduring the silent treatment for a reasonable amount of time, each of us believing the other person was at fault, we finally expressed the emotions that were churning beneath our heated outbursts.
Shared feelings of love and fear for the other’s safety kept the hazardous incident from proving fatal to our cherished marriage.Paul warned, “Let no corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth, but [only] that which is good [and] edifying, that it may minister grace unto the hearers” (Ephesians 4:29).
His words resonate with a certain purity.What does the phrase “no corrupt communication” mean to you?
We all regularly experience highly charged feelings of anger—our own and others’.
We have seen unchecked anger erupt in public places.
We have experienced it as a sort of emotional “electrical short” at sporting events, in the political arena, and even in our own homes.Children sometimes speak to beloved parents with tongues as sharp as blades.
Spouses, who have shared some of life’s richest and most tender experiences, lose vision and patience with each other and raise their voices.
All of us, though covenant children of a loving Heavenly Father, have regretted jumping headlong from the high seat of self-righteous judgment and have spoken with abrasive words before we understood a situation from another’s perspective.
We have all had the opportunity to learn how destructive words can take a situation from hazardous to fatal.A recent letter from the First Presidency states clearly, “The gospel of Jesus Christ teaches us to love and treat all people with kindness and civility—even when we disagree” (First Presidency letter, Jan. 10, 2014).
What a masterful reminder that we can and should participate in continuing civil dialogue, especially when we view the world from differing perspectives.The writer of Proverbs counsels, “A soft answer turneth away wrath: but grievous words stir up anger” (Proverbs 15:1).
A “soft answer” consists of a reasoned response—disciplined words from a humble heart.
It does not mean we never speak directly or that we compromise doctrinal truth.
Words that may be firm in information can be soft in spirit.The Book of Mormon contains a striking example of affirming language also given in the context of a marital disagreement.
The sons of Sariah and Lehi had been sent back to Jerusalem to get the brass plates and had not returned.
Sariah believed her sons were in harm’s way, and she was filled with anger and needed someone to blame.Listen to the story through the eyes of her son Nephi: “For [my mother] had supposed that we had perished in the wilderness; and she also had complained against my father, telling him that he was a visionary man; saying: Behold thou hast led us forth from the land of our inheritance, and my sons are no more, and we perish in the wilderness” (1 Nephi 5:2).Now, let’s consider what Sariah may have been thinking.
She was filled with anxiety about her quarrelsome sons returning to the place where her husband’s life had been threatened.
She had traded her lovely home and friends for a tent in an isolated wilderness while still in her childbearing years.
Pushed to the breaking point of her fears, Sariah seems to have jumped heroically, if not rationally, from the height of a hurtling truck in an attempt to protect her family.
She expressed legitimate concerns to her husband in the language of anger and doubt and blame—a language in which the entire human race seems to be surprisingly proficient.The prophet Lehi listened to the fear that underpinned his wife’s anger.
Then he made a disciplined response in the language of compassion.
First, he owned the truth of what things looked like from her perspective: “And … my father spake unto her, saying: I know that I am a visionary man; … but [if I] had tarried at Jerusalem, [we would have] perished with my brethren” (1 Nephi 5:4).Then her husband addressed her fears concerning the welfare of their sons, as the Holy Ghost undoubtedly testified to him, saying:“But behold, I have obtained a land of promise, in the which things I do rejoice; yea, and I know that the Lord will deliver my sons out of the hands of Laban.
…“And after this manner of language did my father, Lehi, comfort my mother … concerning us” (1 Nephi 5:5–6).There exists today a great need for men and women to cultivate respect for each other across wide distances of belief and behavior and across deep canyons of conflicting agendas.
It is impossible to know all that informs our minds and hearts or even to fully understand the context for the trials and choices we each face.Nevertheless, what would happen to the “corrupt communication” Paul spoke about if our own position included empathy for another’s experience first?
Fully owning the limits of my own imperfections and rough edges, I plead with you to practice asking this question, with tender regard for another’s experience: “What are you thinking?”Remember when the Lord surprised Samuel and Saul by choosing a little shepherd boy, David of Bethlehem, as king of Israel?
The Lord told His prophet, “For the Lord seeth not as man seeth; for man looketh on the outward appearance, but the Lord looketh on the heart” (1 Samuel 16:7).When our truck cab filled with smoke, my wife acted in the bravest manner she could imagine to protect our son.
I too acted as a protector when I questioned her choice.
Shockingly, it did not matter who was more right.
What mattered was listening to each other and understanding the other’s perspective.The willingness to see through each other’s eyes will transform “corrupt communication” into “minister[ing] grace.” The Apostle Paul understood this, and on some level each of us can experience it too.
It may not change or solve the problem, but the more important possibility may be whether ministering grace could change us.I bear humble witness that we can “minister grace” through compassionate language when the cultivated gift of the Holy Ghost pierces our hearts with empathy for the feelings and context of others.
It enables us to transform hazardous situations into holy places.
I testify of a loving Savior who “looketh on [our] heart” and cares what we are thinking.
In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
Soon after the Resurrection and Ascension of Jesus, the Apostle Peter taught, “Let all … know assuredly, that God hath made that same Jesus, whom ye have crucified, both Lord and Christ.” The listeners were stricken in their hearts and asked Peter and the others, “Men and brethren, what shall we do?”1 And they subsequently obeyed Peter’s teachings with gladness.Tomorrow is Easter Sunday, and I hope that we also are stricken in our hearts to acknowledge the Savior, repent, and obey with gladness.In this general conference, we will hear inspired direction given by Church leaders, both male and female.
Knowing that our hearts will be touched by their words, I ask you tonight, “Women and sisters, what shall we do?”The Relief Society general president Eliza R. Snow declared to sisters almost 150 years ago, “The Lord has laid high responsibilities upon us.”2 I testify that her declaration is still true today.The Lord’s Church needs Spirit-directed women who use their unique gifts to nurture, to speak up, and to defend gospel truth.
Our inspiration and intuition are necessary parts of building the kingdom of God, which really means doing our part to bring salvation to God’s children.Building the Kingdom through NurturingWe build the kingdom when we nurture others.
However, the first child of God we must build up in the restored gospel is ourselves.
Emma Smith said, “I desire the Spirit of God to know and understand myself, that I might be able to overcome whatever of tradition or nature that would not tend to my exaltation.”3 We must develop bedrock faith in the Savior’s gospel and move forward, empowered by temple covenants, toward exaltation.What if some of our traditions don’t have a place in the restored gospel of Jesus Christ?
Letting go of them may require the emotional support and nurture of another, as it did for me.When I was born, my parents planted a magnolia tree in the backyard so there would be magnolias at my wedding ceremony, held in the Protestant church of my forefathers.
But on the day of my marriage, there were no parents at my side and no magnolias, for as a one-year convert to the Church, I had traveled to Salt Lake City, Utah, to receive my temple endowment and be sealed to David, my fiancé.When I left Louisiana and neared Utah, a feeling of homelessness swept over me.
Before the wedding, I would be staying with David’s step-grandmother, who was lovingly known as Aunt Carol.Here I was, a stranger to Utah, going to stay in a stranger’s house before being sealed—for eternity—to a family I barely knew.
(Good thing I loved and trusted my future husband and the Lord!
)As I stood at the front door of Aunt Carol’s house, I wanted to shrink away.
The door opened—I stood there like a scared rabbit—and Aunt Carol, without a word, reached out and took me into her arms.
She, who had no children of her own, knew—her nurturing heart knew—that I needed a place to belong.
Oh, the comfort and sweetness of that moment!
My fear melted, and there came to me a sense of being anchored to a spiritually safe place.Love is making space in your life for someone else, as Aunt Carol did for me.Mothers literally make room in their bodies to nurture an unborn baby—and hopefully a place in their hearts as they raise them—but nurturing is not limited to bearing children.
Eve was called a “mother” before she had children.4 I believe that “to mother” means “to give life.” Think of the many ways you give life.
It could mean giving emotional life to the hopeless or spiritual life to the doubter.
With the help of the Holy Ghost, we can create an emotionally healing place for the discriminated against, the rejected, and the stranger.
In these tender yet powerful ways, we build the kingdom of God.
Sisters, all of us came to earth with these life-giving, nurturing, maternal gifts because that is God’s plan.Following His plan and becoming a builder of the kingdom require selfless sacrifice.
Elder Orson F. Whitney wrote: “All that we suffer and all that we endure, especially when we endure it patiently, … purifies our hearts … and makes us more tender and charitable, … and it is through … toil and tribulation, that we gain the education … which will make us more like our Father and Mother in heaven.”5 These purifying trials bring us to Christ, who can heal us and make us useful in the work of salvation.Building the Kingdom through Speaking and TestifyingWe also build the kingdom when we speak up and testify of truth.
We follow the Lord’s pattern.
He speaks and teaches with power and authority of God.
Sisters, we can too.
Women generally love to talk and gather!
As we work by delegated priesthood authority given to us, our talking and gathering grow into gospel teaching and leading.Sister Julie B. Beck, former Relief Society general president, taught: “The ability to qualify for, receive, and act on personal revelation is the single most important skill that can be acquired in this life.
… It requires a conscious effort.”6Personal revelation from the Holy Ghost will prompt us to learn, speak, and act on eternal truth—the Savior’s truth.
The more we follow Christ, the more we will feel His love and direction; the more we feel His love and direction, the more we will want to speak and teach truth as He did, even when we face opposition.Some years ago, I prayed for the words to defend motherhood when I received an anonymous phone call.The caller asked, “Are you Neill Marriott, the mother of a big family?”I answered happily, “Yes!” expecting to hear her say something like, “Well, that’s good!”But no!
I’ll never forget her reply as her voice crackled over the phone: “I am highly offended that you would bring children onto this overcrowded planet!”“Oh,” I sputtered, “I see how you feel.”She snapped, “No—you don’t!”I then whimpered, “Well, maybe I don’t.”She started on a rant about my foolish choice to be a mother.
As she went on, I began to pray for help, and a gentle thought came to mind: “What would the Lord say to her?” I then felt I was standing on solid ground and gained courage at the thought of Jesus Christ.I replied, “I am glad to be a mother, and I promise you I will do everything in my power to nurture my children in such a way that they will make the world a better place.”She replied, “Well, I hope you do!” and hung up.It wasn’t a big thing—after all, I was standing safely in my own kitchen!
But in my own small way, I was able to speak in defense of family, mothers, and nurturers because of two things: (1) I understood and believed God’s doctrine of the family, and (2) I prayed for words to convey these truths.Being distinct and different from the world will draw some criticism, but we must anchor ourselves to eternal principles and testify of them, no matter the world’s response.When we ask ourselves, “What shall we do?” let’s ponder this question: “What does the Savior do continually?” He nurtures.
He creates.
He encourages growth and goodness.
Women and sisters, we can do these things!
Primary girls, is there someone in your family who needs your love and kindness?
You build the kingdom by nurturing others too.The Savior’s creation of the earth, under the direction of His Father, was a mighty act of nurturing.
He provided a place for us to grow and develop faith in His atoning power.
Faith in Jesus Christ and His Atonement is the ultimate place of healing and hope, growth and purpose.
All of us need a spiritual and physical place of belonging.
We, sisters of all ages, can create this; it is even a holy place.Our high responsibility is to become women who follow the Savior, nurture with inspiration, and live truth fearlessly.
As we ask Father in Heaven to make us builders of His kingdom, His power will flow into us and we will know how to nurture, ultimately becoming like our heavenly parents.
In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
Last November, I had the privilege of being invited—along with President Henry B. Eyring and Bishop Gérald Caussé—to attend a colloquium on marriage and family at the Vatican in Rome, Italy.
In attendance were religious representatives from 14 different faiths and from six of the seven continents, all of whom had been invited to express their beliefs on what is happening to the family in today’s world.Pope Francis opened the first session of the assembly with this statement: “We now live in a culture of the temporary, in which more and more people are simply giving up on marriage as a public commitment.
This revolution in manners and morals has often flown the flag of freedom, but in fact it has brought spiritual and material devastation to countless human beings, especially the poorest and most vulnerable.
… It is always they who suffer the most in this crisis.”1In referring to those of the rising generation, he said it is important that they “do not give themselves over to the poisonous [mentality] of the temporary, but rather be revolutionaries with the courage to seek true and lasting love, going against the common pattern”; this must be done.2This was followed by three days of presentation and discussion with religious leaders addressing the subject of marriage between a man and a woman.
As I listened to the widest imaginable variety of worldwide religious leaders, I heard them agree completely with each other and express support for one another’s beliefs on the sanctity of the institution of marriage and of the importance of families as the basic unit of society.
I felt a powerful sense of commonality and unity with them.There were many who saw and expressed this unity, and they did so in a variety of ways.
One of my favorites was when a Muslim scholar from Iran quoted two paragraphs verbatim from our very own proclamation on the family.During the colloquium, I observed that when various faiths and denominations and religions are united on marriage and family, they are also united on the values and loyalty and commitment which are naturally associated with family units.
It was remarkable for me to see how marriage and family-centered priorities cut across and superseded any political, economic, or religious differences.
When it comes to love of spouse and hopes, worries, and dreams for children, we are all the same.It was marvelous to be in meetings with worldwide presenters as they universally addressed their feelings of the importance of marriage between a man and a woman.
Each of their addresses was followed by testimonies from other religious leaders.
President Henry B. Eyring gave a final testimony at the colloquium.
He bore powerful witness to the beauty of a committed marriage and to our belief in the promised blessing of eternal families.President Eyring’s testimony was a fitting benediction to those three special days.Now, you may be asking, “If the majority felt that similarity of family priority and beliefs, if all of those faiths and religions essentially agreed on what marriage should be, and if they all agreed on the value that should be placed on homes and family relationships, then how are we any different?
How does The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints distinguish and differentiate itself from the rest of the world?”Here is the answer: while it was wonderful to see and feel that we have so much in common with the rest of the world in regard to our families, only we have the eternal perspective of the restored gospel.What the restored gospel brings to the discussion on marriage and family is so large and so relevant that it cannot be overstated: we make the subject eternal!
We take the commitment and the sanctity of marriage to a greater level because of our belief and understanding that families go back to before this earth was and that they can go forward into eternity.This doctrine is taught so simply, powerfully, and beautifully by Ruth Gardner’s text for the Primary song “Families Can Be Together Forever.” Pause for just a moment and think about Primary children all over the world singing these words in their native tongue, at the top of their lungs, with an enthusiasm that only love of family can evoke:Families can be together foreverThrough Heavenly Father’s plan.I always want to be with my own family,And the Lord has shown me how I can.
3The entire theology of our restored gospel centers on families and on the new and everlasting covenant of marriage.
In The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, we believe in a premortal life where we all lived as literal spirit children of God our Heavenly Father.
We believe that we were, and still are, members of His family.We believe that marriage and family ties can continue beyond the grave—that marriages performed by those who have the proper authority in His temples will continue to be valid in the world to come.
Our marriage ceremonies eliminate the words “till death do us part” and instead say, “for time and for all eternity.”We also believe that strong traditional families are not only the basic units of a stable society, a stable economy, and a stable culture of values—but that they are also the basic units of eternity and of the kingdom and government of God.We believe that the organization and government of heaven will be built around families and extended families.It is because of our belief that marriages and families are eternal that we, as a church, want to be a leader and a participant in worldwide movements to strengthen them.
We know that it is not only those who are actively religious who share common values and priorities of lasting marriages and strong family relationships.
A great number of secular people have concluded that a committed marriage and family lifestyle is the most sensible, the most economical, and the happiest way to live.No one has ever come up with a more efficient way to raise the next generation than a household of married parents with children.Why should marriage and family matter—everywhere?
Public opinion polls show that marriage is still the ideal and the hope among the majority of every age group—even among the millennial generation, where we hear so much about chosen singleness, personal freedom, and cohabitation instead of marriage.
The fact is that strong majorities worldwide still want to have children and to create strong families.Once we are married and once we have children, the true commonality among all mankind becomes even more evident.
As “family people”—no matter where we live or what our religious beliefs may be—we share many of the same struggles, the same adjustments, and the same hopes, worries, and dreams for our children.As New York Times columnist David Brooks said: “People are not better off when they are given maximum personal freedom to do what they want.
They’re better off when they are enshrouded in commitments that transcend personal choice—commitments to family, God, craft and country.”4One problem is that much of the media and entertainment that the world shares does not reflect the priorities and values of the majority.
For whatever reasons, too much of our television, movies, music, and Internet present a classic case of a minority masquerading as a majority.
Immorality and amorality, ranging from graphic violence to recreational sex, is portrayed as the norm and can cause those who have mainstream values to feel like we are out of date or from a bygone era.
In such a media and Internet-dominated world, it has never been harder to raise responsible children and to keep marriages and families together.Despite what much of media and entertainment outlets may suggest, however, and despite the very real decline in the marriage and family orientation of some, the solid majority of mankind still believes that marriage should be between one man and one woman.
They believe in fidelity within marriage, and they believe in the marriage vows of “in sickness and in health” and “till death do us part.”We need to remind ourselves once in a while, as I was reminded in Rome, of the wonderfully reassuring and comforting fact that marriage and family are still the aspiration and ideal of most people and that we are not alone in those beliefs.
It has never been more of a challenge to find a practical balance between employment, families, and personal needs than it is in our day.
As a church, we want to assist in all that we can to create and support strong marriages and families.That is why the Church actively participates in and provides leadership to various coalitions and ecumenical efforts to strengthen the family.
It is why we share our family-focused values in the media and on social media.
It is why we share our genealogical and extended family records with all nations.We want our voice to be heard against all of the counterfeit and alternative lifestyles that try to replace the family organization that God Himself established.
We also want our voice to be heard in sustaining the joy and fulfillment that traditional families bring.
We must continue to project that voice throughout the world in declaring why marriage and family are so important, why marriage and family really do matter, and why they always will.My brothers and sisters, the restored gospel centers on marriage and family.
It is also on marriage and family where we can unite most with other faiths.
It is around marriage and family where we will find our greatest commonality with the rest of the world.
It is around marriage and family that The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has the greatest opportunity to be a light on the hill.Let me close by bearing witness (and my nine decades on this earth fully qualify me to say this) that the older I get, the more I realize that family is the center of life and is the key to eternal happiness.I give thanks for my wife, for my children, for my grandchildren and my great-grandchildren, and for all of the cousins and in-laws and extended family who make my own life so rich and, yes, even eternal.
Of this eternal truth I bear my strongest and most sacred witness in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
One of the most remarkable creatures on earth is the monarch butterfly.
On a trip to Mexico to spend Christmas with my husband’s family, we visited a butterfly sanctuary, where millions of monarch butterflies spend the winter.
It was fascinating to see such an impressive sight and for us to reflect on the example of unity and obedience to divine laws that God’s creations demonstrate.1Monarch butterflies are master navigators.
They use the sun’s position to find the direction they need to go.
Every spring, they travel thousands of miles from Mexico to Canada, and every fall, they return to the same sacred fir forests in Mexico.2 They do this year after year, one tiny wing flap at a time.
During their journey, they cluster together at night on trees to protect themselves from the cold and from predators.3A group of butterflies is called a kaleidoscope.4 Isn’t that a beautiful image?
Each butterfly in a kaleidoscope is unique and different, yet these seemingly fragile creatures have been designed by a loving Creator with the ability to survive, travel, multiply, and disseminate life as they go from one flower to the next, spreading pollen.
And although each butterfly is different, they work together to make the world a more beautiful and fruitful place.Like the monarch butterflies, we are on a journey back to our heavenly home, where we will reunite with our Heavenly Parents.5 Like the butterflies, we have been given divine attributes that allow us to navigate through life, in order to “[fill] the measure of [our] creation.”6 Like them, if we knit our hearts together,7 the Lord will protect us “as a hen [gathers] her chickens under her wings”8 and will make us into a beautiful kaleidoscope.Girls and boys, young women and young men, sisters and brothers, we are on this journey together.
In order to reach our sublime destiny, we need each other, and we need to be unified.
The Lord has commanded us, “Be one; and if ye are not one ye are not mine.”9Jesus Christ is the ultimate example of unity with His Father.
They are one in purpose, in love, and in works, with “the will of the Son being swallowed up in the will of the Father.”10How can we follow the Lord’s perfect example of unity with His Father and be more unified with Them and with each other?An inspiring pattern is found in Acts 1:14.
We read, “[The men] all continued with one accord in prayer and supplication, with the women.”11I think it is significant that the phrase “with one accord” appears several times in the book of Acts, where we read about what Jesus Christ’s followers did immediately after He ascended to heaven as a resurrected being, as well as the blessings they received because of their efforts.
It is also significant that we find a similar pattern among the faithful of the American continent at the time the Lord visited and ministered to them.
“With one accord” means in agreement, in unity, and all together.Some of the things that the faithful Saints did in unity in both places were that they testified of Jesus Christ, studied the word of God, and ministered to each other with love.12The Lord’s followers were one in purpose, in love, and in works.
They knew who they were, they knew what they had to do, and they did it with love for God and for each other.
They were part of a magnificent kaleidoscope moving forward with one accord.Some of the blessings they received were that they were filled with the Holy Ghost, miracles took place among them, the Church grew, there was no contention among the people, and the Lord blessed them in all things.13We can suppose that the reason why they were so united is because they knew the Lord personally.
They had been close to Him, and they had been witnesses of His divine mission, of the miracles that He performed, and of His Resurrection.
They saw and touched the marks in His hands and feet.
They knew with certainty that He was the promised Messiah, the Redeemer of the world.
They knew that “He is the source of all healing, peace, and eternal progress.”14Even though we may not have seen our Savior with our physical eyes, we can know that He lives.
As we draw closer to Him, as we seek to receive a personal witness through the Holy Ghost of His divine mission, we will have a better understanding of our purpose; the love of God will dwell in our hearts;15 we will have the determination to be one in the kaleidoscopes of our families, wards, and communities; and we will minister to each other “in newer, better ways.”16Miracles happen when the children of God work together guided by the Spirit to reach out to others in need.We hear so many stories of neighborly love shown among people when catastrophe strikes.
For example, when the city of Houston suffered a massive flood last year, people forgot about their own needs and went to the rescue.
An elders quorum president sent a call for help to the community, and a fleet of 77 boats was quickly organized.
Rescuers went around the affected neighborhoods and transported whole families to one of our meetinghouses, where they received refuge and much needed help.
Members and nonmembers worked together with one purpose.In Santiago, Chile, a Relief Society president had the desire to help immigrants in her community who had come from Haiti.
By counseling together with her priesthood leaders, she and other leaders came up with the idea to offer Spanish classes to those immigrants, helping them integrate better into their new home.
Every Saturday morning, missionaries gather together with their eager students.
The feeling of unity in that building is an inspiring example of people from diverse backgrounds serving with one accord.In Mexico, hundreds of members traveled for hours to help the survivors of two major earthquakes.
They came with tools, machinery, and love for their neighbor.
As volunteers gathered together in one of our meetinghouses waiting for instructions, the mayor of the city of Ixhuatán broke down in tears as he saw such a manifestation of “the pure love of Christ.”17The Lord is now giving us the opportunity to counsel together each month in our priesthood quorums and Relief Societies, so we can all be more active participants in our ward or branch kaleidoscope—a place where we all fit in and where we are all needed.Every one of our paths is different, yet we walk them together.
Our path is not about what we have done or where we have been; it is about where we are going and what we are becoming, in unity.
When we counsel together guided by the Holy Ghost, we can see where we are and where we need to be.
The Holy Ghost gives us a vision that our natural eyes cannot see, because “revelation is scattered among us,”18 and when we put that revelation together, we can see more.As we work in unity, our purpose should be to look for and do the Lord’s will; our incentive should be the love we feel for God and for our neighbor;19 and our greatest desire should be to “labor diligently,”20 so we can prepare the way for the glorious return of our Savior.
The only way we will be able to do so is “with one accord.”Like the monarch butterflies, let us continue on our journey together in purpose, each of us with our own attributes and contributions, working to make this a more beautiful and fruitful world—one small step at a time and in harmony with God’s commandments.Our Lord Jesus Christ has promised us that when we are gathered together in His name, He is in the midst of us.21 I testify that He lives and that He was resurrected on a beautiful spring morning like today.
He is the Monarch above all monarchs, “the King of kings, and [the] Lord of lords.”22May we be one in the Father and in His Begotten Son, as we are guided by the Holy Ghost, is my humble prayer in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
On March 22, 2016, just before eight o’clock in the morning, two terrorist bombs exploded in the Brussels Airport.
Elder Richard Norby, Elder Mason Wells, and Elder Joseph Empey had taken Sister Fanny Clain to the airport for a flight to her mission in Cleveland, Ohio.
Thirty-two people lost their lives, and all of the missionaries were wounded.The most seriously wounded was Elder Richard Norby, age 66, serving with his wife, Sister Pam Norby.Elder Norby reflected on that moment:“Instantly, I knew what had happened.“I tried to run for safety, but I immediately fell down.
… I could see that my left leg was badly injured.
I [noticed] black, almost spiderweb-type, soot drooping from both hands.
I gently pulled at it, but realized it was not soot but my skin that had been burned.
My white shirt was turning red from an injury on my back.“As the consciousness of what had just happened filled my mind, I [had] this very strong thought: … the Savior knew where I was, what had just transpired, and [what] I was experiencing at that moment.”1There were difficult days ahead for Richard Norby and for his wife, Pam.
He was placed in an induced coma, followed by surgeries, infections, and great uncertainty.Richard Norby lived, but his life would never be the same.
Two and a half years later, his wounds are still healing; a brace replaces the missing part of his leg; each step is different than before that moment at the Brussels Airport.Why would this happen to Richard and Pam Norby?2 They had been true to their covenants, served a previous mission in the Ivory Coast, and raised a wonderful family.
Someone could understandably say, “It isn’t fair!
It just isn’t right!
They were giving their lives for the gospel of Jesus Christ; how could this happen?”This Is MortalityAlthough the details will differ, the tragedies, the unanticipated tests and trials, both physical and spiritual, come to each of us because this is mortality.As I thought this morning of the speakers in just this session of conference, it occurred to me that two have lost children and three have lost grandchildren who unexpectedly returned to their heavenly home.
None has been spared sickness and sadness, and as has been spoken, this very week an angel on earth whom we all love, Sister Barbara Ballard, stepped gently through the veil.
President Ballard, we will never forget your testimony this morning.We search for happiness.
We long for peace.
We hope for love.
And the Lord showers us with an amazing abundance of blessings.
But intermingled with the joy and happiness, one thing is certain: there will be moments, hours, days, sometimes years when your soul will be wounded.The scriptures teach that we will taste the bitter and the sweet3 and that there will be “opposition in all things.”4 Jesus said, “[Your Father] maketh his sun to rise on the evil and on the good, and sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust.”5Wounds of the soul are not unique to the rich or the poor, to one culture, one nation, or one generation.
They come to all and are part of the learning we receive from this mortal experience.The Righteous Are Not ImmuneMy message today is especially to those who are keeping the commandments of God, keeping their promises to God, and, like the Norbys and many other men, women, and children in this worldwide audience, are confronted with trials and challenges that are unexpected and painful.Our wounds may come from a natural disaster or an unfortunate accident.
They may come from an unfaithful husband or wife, turning life upside down for a righteous spouse and children.
The wounds may come from the darkness and gloom of depression, from an unanticipated illness, from the suffering or premature death of someone we love, from the sadness of a family member dismissing his or her faith, from the loneliness when circumstances do not bring an eternal companion, or from a hundred other heart-wrenching, painful “[sorrows] that the eye can’t see.”6We each understand that difficulties are part of life, but when they come to us personally, they can take our breath away.
Without being alarmed, we need to be ready.
The Apostle Peter said, “Think it not strange concerning the fiery trial which is to try you, as though some strange thing happened to you.”7 Along with the bright colors of happiness and joy, the darker-colored threads of trial and tragedy are woven deeply into the fabric of our Father’s plan.
These struggles, although difficult, often become our greatest teachers.8When telling the miraculous story of Helaman’s 2,060 young soldiers, we love this scripture: “According to the goodness of God, and to our great astonishment, and also the joy of our whole army, there was not one soul of them who did perish.”But the sentence continues: “And neither was there one soul among them who had not received many wounds.”9 Each one of the 2,060 received many wounds, and each one of us will be wounded in the battle of life, whether physically, spiritually, or both.Jesus Christ Is Our Good SamaritanNever give up—however deep the wounds of your soul, whatever their source, wherever or whenever they happen, and however short or long they persist, you are not meant to perish spiritually.
You are meant to survive spiritually and blossom in your faith and trust in God.God did not create our spirits to be independent of Him.
Our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, through the incalculable gift of His Atonement, not only saves us from death and offers us, through repentance, forgiveness for our sins, but He also stands ready to save us from the sorrows and pains of our wounded souls.10The Savior is our Good Samaritan,11 sent “to heal the brokenhearted.”12 He comes to us when others pass us by.
With compassion, He places His healing balm on our wounds and binds them up.
He carries us.
He cares for us.
He bids us, “Come unto me … and I shall heal [you].”13“And [Jesus] shall … [suffer] pains and afflictions and temptations of every kind; … that … he [might] take upon him the pains and the sicknesses of his people … [taking upon Himself our] infirmities, [being] filled with mercy.”14Come, ye disconsolate, where’er ye languish;Come to the mercy seat, fervently kneel.Here bring your wounded hearts; here tell your anguish.Earth has no sorrow that heav’n cannot heal.15At a time of enormous suffering, the Lord told the Prophet Joseph, “All these things shall give thee experience, and shall be for thy good.”16 How can painful wounds be for our good?
In the crucible of earthly trials, patiently move forward, and the Savior’s healing power will bring you light, understanding, peace, and hope.17Don’t Ever Give UpPray with all your heart.
Strengthen your faith in Jesus Christ, in His reality, in His grace.
Hold on to His words: “My grace is sufficient for thee: for my strength is made perfect in weakness.”18Remember, repentance is powerful spiritual medicine.19 Keep the commandments and be worthy of the Comforter, remembering that the Savior promised, “I will not leave you comfortless: I will come to you.”20The peace of the temple is a soothing balm to the wounded soul.
Return to the Lord’s house with your wounded heart and your family names as frequently as possible.
The temple projects our brief moment in mortality onto the wide screen of eternity.21Look backward, remembering that you proved your worthiness in your premortal state.
You are a valiant child of God, and with His help, you can triumph in the battles of this fallen world.
You have done it before, and you can do it again.Look forward.
Your troubles and sorrows are very real, but they will not last forever.22 Your dark night will pass, because “the Son … [did rise] with healing in his wings.”23The Norbys told me, “Disappointment comes to visit on occasion but is never allowed to stay.”24 The Apostle Paul said, “We are troubled … yet not distressed; we are perplexed, but not in despair; persecuted, but not forsaken; cast down, but not destroyed.”25 You may be exhausted, but don’t ever give up.26Even with your own painful wounds, you will instinctively reach out to others, trusting in the Savior’s promise: “Whosoever will lose his life for my sake shall find it.”27 The wounded who nurse the wounds of others are God’s angels on earth.In just a few moments, we will listen to our beloved prophet, President Russell M. Nelson, a man of undaunted faith in Jesus Christ, a man of hope and peace, loved by God but not spared from the wounds of the soul.In 1995 his daughter Emily, while expecting a child, was diagnosed with cancer.
There were days of hope and happiness as her healthy baby was delivered.
But the cancer returned, and their beloved Emily would pass from this life just two weeks after her 37th birthday, leaving her loving husband and five young children.In general conference, shortly after her passing, President Nelson confided: “My tears of sorrow have flowed along with wishes that I could have done more for our daughter.
… If I had the power of resurrection, I would have been tempted to bring [her] back.
… [But] Jesus Christ holds those keys and will use them for Emily … and for all people in the Lord’s own time.”28Last month, while visiting the Saints in Puerto Rico and remembering last year’s devastating hurricane, President Nelson spoke with love and compassion:“[This] is part of life.
It’s why we’re here.
We are here to have a body and to be tried and tested.
Some of those tests are physical; some are spiritual, and your trials here have been both physical and spiritual.”29“You have not given up.
We are [so] proud of you.
You faithful Saints have lost much, but through it all, you have fostered your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ.”30“By keeping God’s commandments, we can find joy even in the midst of our worst circumstances.”31All Tears Shall Be Wiped AwayMy brothers and sisters, it is my promise to you that increasing your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ will bring you added strength and greater hope.
For you, the righteous, the Healer of our souls, in His time and His way, will heal all your wounds.32 No injustice, no persecution, no trial, no sadness, no heartache, no suffering, no wound—however deep, however wide, however painful—will be excluded from the comfort, peace, and lasting hope of Him whose open arms and whose wounded hands will welcome us back into His presence.
At that day, the Apostle John testifies, the righteous “which [come] out of great tribulation”33 will stand “arrayed in white robes … before the throne of God.” The Lamb will “dwell among [us] … and God shall wipe away all tears from [your] eyes.”34 This day will come.
I so witness in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
A year ago, in the general priesthood session of conference, Bishop Gérald Caussé spoke to the men of the Church describing how Aaronic and Melchizedek Priesthood holders are inseparable partners in accomplishing the work of salvation.1 That message has been a great blessing in helping the young men who hold the Aaronic Priesthood see the part they play in building the kingdom of God on this earth.
Their joint service strengthens the Church and brings about deeper conversion and commitment in the hearts of our young men as they see the value of their contribution and how magnificent this work is.Today I would like for my remarks to be a bookend to that message as I talk about the young women of the Church, who are equally needed and essential in accomplishing the work of the Lord in their families and in His Church.Like Bishop Caussé, I lived in a small branch of the Church during a good part of my teen years, and I was often asked to fulfill assignments and callings that would normally have been done by adults.
For example, those of us in the youth program often took the lead in helping organize and run our activities and special events.
We wrote plays, formed a singing group to entertain at branch activities, and were full participants in every meeting.
I was called to be the branch music leader and led the singing in sacrament meeting each week.
It was a great experience as a 16-year-old to stand in front of everyone in the branch each Sunday and lead them in singing the hymns.
I felt needed and knew I had something to contribute.
People depended on me to be there, and I loved feeling useful.
That experience helped build my testimony of Jesus Christ, and just as it did for Bishop Caussé, it anchored my life in gospel service.Each member should know how much he or she is needed.
Each person has something important to contribute and has unique talents and abilities that help move this important work along.
Our young men have Aaronic Priesthood duties described in the Doctrine and Covenants that are rather visible.
It may be less obvious to the young women of the Church, their parents, and their leaders that, from the time they are baptized, young women have covenant responsibilities “to mourn with those that mourn; yea, and comfort those that stand in need of comfort, and to stand as witnesses of God at all times and in all things, and in all places that [they] may be in, even until death.”2 Young women have opportunities to fulfill these responsibilities in their wards and branches and when they serve in class presidencies, on youth councils, and in other callings.
Every young woman in the Church should feel valued, have opportunities to serve, and feel that she has something of worth to contribute to this work.In Handbook 2, we learn that the work of salvation within our wards includes “member missionary work, convert retention, activation of less-active members, temple and family history work, and teaching the gospel.”3 This work is directed by our faithful bishops, who hold priesthood keys for their ward.
For many years now, our presidency has been asking the question “Which of these areas mentioned should our young women not be involved in?” The answer is that they have something to contribute in all areas of this work.For example, I recently met several young women in the Las Vegas area who have been called to serve as ward temple and family history consultants.
They were glowing with enthusiasm about being able to teach and help members of their ward find their ancestors.
They had valuable skills on the computer, had learned how to use FamilySearch, and were excited to share that knowledge with others.
It was clear that they had testimonies and an understanding of the importance of seeking out the names of our deceased ancestors so that essential saving ordinances can be performed for them in the temple.Several months ago, I had the opportunity to test an idea with two 14-year-old young women.
I obtained copies of two actual ward council agendas and gave Emma and Maggie each a copy.
I asked them to read over the agendas and see if there were any action items from the ward councils in which they might be able to be of service.
Emma saw that a new family was moving into the ward, and she said she could help them move in and unpack.
She thought she could befriend the children in the family and show them around their new school.
She saw there was a ward dinner coming up and felt there were many different ways she could offer her services.Maggie saw that there were several elderly people in the ward who needed visits and fellowshipping.
She said she would love to visit with and be of help to these wonderful older members.
She also felt she could help teach members of the ward how to set up and use social media accounts.
There really wasn’t one thing on those agendas with which those two young women could not help!Do those who sit on ward councils, or hold any calling in the ward, see the young women as valuable resources to help fill the many needs within our wards?
There is usually a long list of situations that require someone to serve, and we often think only of the adults in the ward to meet those needs.
Just as our Aaronic Priesthood holders have been invited to labor with their fathers and other men of the Melchizedek Priesthood, our young women can be called upon to provide service and minister to the needs of ward members with their mothers or other exemplary sisters.
They are capable, eager, and willing to do so much more than merely attend church on Sundays!As we consider the roles that our young women will be expected to assume in the near future, we might ask ourselves what kind of experiences we could provide for them now that will help with their preparation to be missionaries, gospel scholars, leaders in the Church auxiliaries, temple workers, wives, mothers, mentors, examples, and friends.
They can actually begin now to fill many of those roles.
Youth are often asked to help teach lessons on Sunday in their classes.
Opportunities are now available for our young women to perform service in the temple previously completed by ordinance workers or volunteers when they attend with their youth groups to perform baptisms for the dead.
Our Primary-age girls are now invited to attend Temple and Priesthood Preparation meetings, which will help them understand that they too are important participants in priesthood-directed work.
They are learning that men, women, youth, and children are all recipients of priesthood blessings and all can take an active role in moving forward the Lord’s work.Bishops, we know your duties are often heavy, but just as one of your highest priorities is to preside over the Aaronic Priesthood quorums, Handbook 2 explains that “the bishop and his counselors provide priesthood leadership for the Young Women organization.
They watch over and strengthen individual young women, working closely with parents and Young Women leaders in this effort.” It also states that “the bishop and his counselors regularly participate in Young Women meetings, service, and activities.”4 We are grateful for bishops who take the time to visit Young Women classes and who provide opportunities for young women to be more than mere spectators of the work.
Thank you for making sure your young women are valued participants in meeting the needs of ward members!
These opportunities to serve in meaningful ways bless them much more than activities in which they are just entertained.To you, the young women of the Church, your teenage years can be busy and often challenging.
We have noticed that many more of you are struggling with issues of self-worth, anxiety, high levels of stress, and perhaps even depression.
Turning your thoughts outward, instead of dwelling on your own problems, may not resolve all of these issues, but service can often lighten your burdens and make your challenges seem less hard.
One of the best ways to increase feelings of self-worth is to show, through our concern and service to others, that we have much of worth to contribute.5 I encourage you young women to raise your hands to volunteer and to put those hands to work when you see needs around you.
As you fulfill your covenant responsibilities and participate in building the kingdom of God, blessings will flow into your life and you’ll discover the deep and lasting joy of discipleship.Brothers and sisters, our young women are amazing.
They have talents, unlimited enthusiasm, and energy, and they are compassionate and caring.
They want to be of service.
They need to know they are valued and essential in the work of salvation.
Just as young men prepare in the Aaronic Priesthood for greater service as they advance into the Melchizedek Priesthood, our young women are preparing to become members of the greatest women’s organization on the earth—the Relief Society.
Together, these beautiful, strong, faithful young women and young men are preparing to be wives and husbands, and mothers and fathers who will raise families worthy of the celestial kingdom of God.I testify that the work of our Heavenly Father is to bring about the immortality and eternal life of His children.6 Our precious young women have an important role to play in helping to accomplish this great work.
In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
 I, Nephi, having been aborn of bgoodly cparents, therefore I was dtaught somewhat in all the learning of my father; and having seen many eafflictions in the course of my days, nevertheless, having been highly favored of the Lord in all my days; yea, having had a great knowledge of the goodness and the mysteries of God, therefore I make a frecord of my proceedings in my days.
Yea, I make a record in the alanguage of my father, which consists of the learning of the Jews and the language of the Egyptians.
And I know that the record which I make is atrue; and I make it with mine own hand; and I make it according to my knowledge.
For it came to pass in the commencement of the afirst year of the reign of bZedekiah, king of Judah, (my father, Lehi, having dwelt at cJerusalem in all his days); and in that same year there came many dprophets, prophesying unto the people that they must erepent, or the great city fJerusalem must be destroyed.
Wherefore it came to pass that my father, Lehi, as he went forth prayed unto the Lord, yea, even with all his aheart, in behalf of his people.
And it came to pass as he prayed unto the Lord, there came a apillar of fire and dwelt upon a rock before him; and he saw and heard much; and because of the things which he saw and heard he did bquake and tremble exceedingly.
And it came to pass that he returned to his own house at Jerusalem; and he cast himself upon his bed, being aovercome with the Spirit and the things which he had seen.
And being thus overcome with the Spirit, he was carried away in a avision, even that he saw the bheavens open, and he thought he csaw God sitting upon his throne, surrounded with numberless concourses of angels in the attitude of singing and praising their God.
And it came to pass that he saw One descending out of the midst of heaven, and he beheld that his aluster was above that of the sun at noon-day.
And he also saw atwelve others following him, and their brightness did exceed that of the stars in the firmament.
And they came down and went forth upon the face of the earth; and the first came and astood before my father, and gave unto him a bbook, and bade him that he should read.
And it came to pass that as he read, he was filled with the aSpirit of the Lord.
And he read, saying: Wo, wo, unto Jerusalem, for I have seen thine aabominations!
Yea, and many things did my father read concerning bJerusalem—that it should be destroyed, and the inhabitants thereof; many should perish by the sword, and many should be ccarried away captive into Babylon.
And it came to pass that when my father had read and seen many great and marvelous things, he did exclaim many things unto the Lord; such as: Great and marvelous are thy works, O Lord God Almighty!
Thy throne is high in the heavens, and thy apower, and goodness, and mercy are over all the inhabitants of the earth; and, because thou art merciful, thou wilt not suffer those who bcome unto thee that they shall perish!
And after this manner was the language of my father in the praising of his God; for his soul did rejoice, and his whole heart was filled, because of the things which he had seen, yea, which the Lord had shown unto him.
And now I, Nephi, do not make a full account of the things which my father hath written, for he hath written many things which he saw in avisions and in bdreams; and he also hath written many things which he cprophesied and spake unto his children, of which I shall not make a full account.
But I shall make an account of my proceedings in my days.
Behold, I make an aabridgment of the record of my bfather, upon cplates which I have made with mine own hands; wherefore, after I have abridged the record of my dfather then will I make an account of mine own life.
Therefore, I would that ye should know, that after the Lord had shown so many marvelous things unto my father, Lehi, yea, concerning the adestruction of Jerusalem, behold he went forth among the people, and began to bprophesy and to declare unto them concerning the things which he had both seen and heard.
And it came to pass that the aJews did bmock him because of the things which he testified of them; for he truly testified of their cwickedness and their abominations; and he testified that the things which he saw and heard, and also the things which he read in the book, manifested plainly of the coming of a dMessiah, and also the redemption of the world.
And when the Jews heard these things they were angry with him; yea, even as with the prophets of old, whom they had acast out, and stoned, and slain; and they also bsought his life, that they might take it away.
But behold, I, Nephi, will show unto you that the tender cmercies of the Lord are over all those whom he hath chosen, because of their faith, to make them mighty even unto the power of ddeliverance.
 And now I, Nephi, proceed to give an account upon athese plates of my proceedings, and my reign and ministry; wherefore, to proceed with mine account, I must speak somewhat of the things of my father, and also of my brethren.
For behold, it came to pass after my father had made an end of speaking the words of his adream, and also of exhorting them to all diligence, he spake unto them concerning the Jews— That after they should be destroyed, even that great city aJerusalem, and many be bcarried away captive into cBabylon, according to the own due time of the Lord, they should dreturn again, yea, even be brought back out of captivity; and after they should be brought back out of captivity they should possess again the land of their inheritance.
Yea, even asix hundred years from the time that my father left Jerusalem, a bprophet would the Lord God raise up among the cJews—even a dMessiah, or, in other words, a Savior of the world.
And he also spake concerning the prophets, how great a number had atestified of these things, concerning this Messiah, of whom he had spoken, or this Redeemer of the world.
Wherefore, all mankind were in a alost and in a bfallen state, and ever would be save they should rely on this Redeemer.
And he spake also concerning a aprophet who should come before the Messiah, to prepare the way of the Lord— Yea, even he should go forth and cry in the wilderness: aPrepare ye the way of the Lord, and make his paths straight; for there standeth one among you whom ye know not; and he is mightier than I, whose shoe’s latchet I am not worthy to unloose.
And much spake my father concerning this thing.
And my father said he should baptize in aBethabara, beyond Jordan; and he also said he should bbaptize with water; even that he should baptize the Messiah with water.
And after he had baptized the Messiah with water, he should behold and bear record that he had baptized the aLamb of God, who should take away the sins of the world.
And it came to pass after my father had spoken these words he spake unto my brethren concerning the gospel which should be preached among the Jews, and also concerning the adwindling of the Jews in bunbelief.
And after they had cslain the Messiah, who should come, and after he had been slain he should drise from the dead, and should make himself emanifest, by the Holy Ghost, unto the Gentiles.
Yea, even my father spake much concerning the Gentiles, and also concerning the house of Israel, that they should be compared like unto an aolive tree, whose bbranches should be broken off and should be cscattered upon all the face of the earth.
Wherefore, he said it must needs be that we should be led with one accord into the aland of promise, unto the fulfilling of the word of the Lord, that we should be scattered upon all the face of the earth.
And after the house of aIsrael should be scattered they should be bgathered together again; or, in fine, after the cGentiles had received the fulness of the dGospel, the natural branches of the eolive tree, or the fremnants of the house of gIsrael, should be grafted in, or hcome to the knowledge of the true Messiah, their Lord and their Redeemer.
And after this manner of language did my father prophesy and speak unto my brethren, and also many more things which I do not write in this book; for I have written as many of them as were expedient for me in mine aother book.
And all these things, of which I have spoken, were done as my father dwelt in a atent, in the valley of Lemuel.
And it came to pass after I, Nephi, having heard all the awords of my father, concerning the things which he saw in a bvision, and also the things which he spake by the power of the Holy Ghost, which power he received by faith on the Son of God—and the Son of God was the cMessiah who should come—I, Nephi, was ddesirous also that I might see, and hear, and know of these things, by the power of the eHoly Ghost, which is the fgift of God unto gall those who diligently seek him, as well in times of hold as in the time that he should manifest himself unto the children of men.
For he is the asame yesterday, today, and forever; and the way is prepared for all men from the foundation of the world, if it so be that they repent and come unto him.
For he that diligently aseeketh shall find; and the bmysteries of God shall be unfolded unto them, by the power of the cHoly Ghost, as well in these times as in times of old, and as well in times of old as in times to come; wherefore, the dcourse of the Lord is one eternal round.
Therefore remember, O man, for all thy doings thou shalt be brought into ajudgment.
Wherefore, if ye have sought to do awickedly in the days of your bprobation, then ye are found cunclean before the judgment-seat of God; and no unclean thing can dwell with God; wherefore, ye must be cast off forever.
And the Holy Ghost giveth aauthority that I should speak these things, and deny them not.
 For it came to pass after I had desired to know the things that my father had seen, and believing that the Lord was able to make them known unto me, as I sat apondering in mine heart I was bcaught away in the Spirit of the Lord, yea, into an exceedingly high cmountain, which I never had before seen, and upon which I never had before set my foot.
And the Spirit said unto me: Behold, what adesirest thou?
And I said: I desire to behold the things which my father asaw.
And the Spirit said unto me: aBelievest thou that thy father saw the btree of which he hath spoken?
And I said: Yea, thou knowest that I abelieve all the words of my father.
And when I had spoken these words, the Spirit cried with a loud voice, saying: Hosanna to the Lord, the most high God; for he is God over all the aearth, yea, even above all.
And blessed art thou, Nephi, because thou bbelievest in the Son of the most high God; wherefore, thou shalt behold the things which thou hast desired.
And behold this thing shall be given unto thee for a asign, that after thou hast beheld the tree which bore the fruit which thy father tasted, thou shalt also behold a man descending out of heaven, and him shall ye witness; and after ye have witnessed him ye shall bbear record that it is the Son of God.
And it came to pass that the Spirit said unto me: Look!
And I looked and beheld a tree; and it was like unto the atree which my father had seen; and the bbeauty thereof was far beyond, yea, exceeding of all beauty; and the cwhiteness thereof did exceed the whiteness of the driven snow.
And it came to pass after I had seen the tree, I said unto the Spirit: I behold thou hast shown unto me the tree which is aprecious above all.
And he said unto me: What desirest thou?
And I said unto him: To know the ainterpretation thereof—for I spake unto him as a man speaketh; for I beheld that he was in the bform of a man; yet nevertheless, I knew that it was the Spirit of the Lord; and he spake unto me as a man speaketh with another.
And it came to pass that he said unto me: Look!
And I looked as if to look upon him, and I saw him not; for he had gone from before my presence.
And it came to pass that I looked and beheld the great city of Jerusalem, and also other cities.
And I beheld the city of Nazareth; and in the city of aNazareth I beheld a bvirgin, and she was exceedingly fair and white.
And it came to pass that I saw the aheavens open; and an angel came down and stood before me; and he said unto me: Nephi, what beholdest thou?
And I said unto him: A virgin, most beautiful and fair above all other virgins.
And he said unto me: Knowest thou the acondescension of God?
And I said unto him: I know that he loveth his children; nevertheless, I do not know the meaning of all things.
And he said unto me: Behold, the avirgin whom thou seest is the bmother of the Son of God, after the manner of the flesh.
And it came to pass that I beheld that she was carried away in the Spirit; and after she had been carried away in the aSpirit for the space of a time the angel spake unto me, saying: Look!
And I looked and beheld the virgin again, bearing a achild in her arms.
And the angel said unto me: Behold the aLamb of God, yea, even the bSon of the Eternal cFather!
Knowest thou the meaning of the dtree which thy father saw?
And I answered him, saying: Yea, it is the alove of God, which bsheddeth itself abroad in the hearts of the children of men; wherefore, it is the cmost desirable above all things.
And he spake unto me, saying: Yea, and the most ajoyous to the soul.
And after he had said these words, he said unto me: Look!
And I looked, and I beheld the Son of God agoing forth among the children of men; and I saw many fall down at his feet and worship him.
And it came to pass that I beheld that the arod of iron, which my father had seen, was the bword of God, which cled to the fountain of dliving waters, or to the etree of life; which waters are a representation of the love of God; and I also beheld that the tree of life was a representation of the love of God.
And the angel said unto me again: Look and behold the acondescension of God!
And I looked and abeheld the Redeemer of the world, of whom my father had spoken; and I also beheld the bprophet who should prepare the way before him.
And the Lamb of God went forth and was cbaptized of him; and after he was baptized, I beheld the heavens open, and the Holy Ghost come down out of heaven and abide upon him in the form of a ddove.
And I beheld that he went forth ministering unto the people, in apower and great glory; and the multitudes were gathered together to hear him; and I beheld that they cast him out from among them.
And I also beheld atwelve others following him.
And it came to pass that they were bcarried away in the Spirit from before my face, and I saw them not.
And it came to pass that the angel spake unto me again, saying: Look!
And I looked, and I beheld the heavens open again, and I saw aangels descending upon the children of men; and they did minister unto them.
And he spake unto me again, saying: Look!
And I looked, and I beheld the Lamb of God going forth among the children of men.
And I beheld multitudes of people who were asick, and who were afflicted with all manner of diseases, and with bdevils and cunclean spirits; and the angel spake and showed all these things unto me.
And they were dhealed by the power of the Lamb of God; and the devils and the unclean spirits were cast out.
And it came to pass that the angel spake unto me again, saying: Look!
And I looked and beheld the Lamb of God, that he was ataken by the people; yea, the Son of the everlasting God was bjudged of the world; and I saw and bear record.
And I, Nephi, saw that he was alifted up upon the cross and bslain for the sins of the world.
And after he was slain I saw the multitudes of the earth, that they were gathered together to afight against the apostles of the Lamb; for thus were the twelve called by the angel of the Lord.
And the multitude of the earth was gathered together; and I beheld that they were in a large and spacious abuilding, like unto the building which my father saw.
And the angel of the Lord spake unto me again, saying: Behold the world and the wisdom thereof; yea, behold the house of Israel hath gathered together to bfight against the twelve apostles of the Lamb.
And it came to pass that I saw and bear record, that the great and spacious building was the apride of the world; and it bfell, and the fall thereof was exceedingly great.
And the angel of the Lord spake unto me again, saying: Thus shall be the destruction of all nations, kindreds, tongues, and people, that shall fight against the twelve apostles of the Lamb.
 And it came to pass that the angel said unto me: Look, and behold thy seed, and also the seed of thy brethren.
And I looked and beheld the aland of promise; and I beheld multitudes of people, yea, even as it were in number as many as the bsand of the sea.
And it came to pass that I beheld multitudes gathered together to battle, one against the other; and I beheld awars, and rumors of wars, and great slaughters with the sword among my people.
And it came to pass that I beheld many generations pass away, after the manner of wars and contentions in the land; and I beheld many cities, yea, even that I did not number them.
And it came to pass that I saw a amist of bdarkness on the face of the land of promise; and I saw lightnings, and I heard thunderings, and earthquakes, and all manner of tumultuous noises; and I saw the earth and the rocks, that they rent; and I saw mountains tumbling into pieces; and I saw the plains of the earth, that they were cbroken up; and I saw many cities that they were dsunk; and I saw many that they were burned with fire; and I saw many that did tumble to the earth, because of the quaking thereof.
And it came to pass after I saw these things, I saw the avapor of darkness, that it passed from off the face of the earth; and behold, I saw multitudes who had not fallen because of the great and terrible judgments of the Lord.
And I saw the heavens open, and the aLamb of God descending out of heaven; and he came down and bshowed himself unto them.
And I also saw and bear record that the Holy Ghost fell upon atwelve others; and they were ordained of God, and chosen.
And the angel spake unto me, saying: Behold the twelve disciples of the Lamb, who are chosen to minister unto thy seed.
And he said unto me: Thou rememberest the atwelve apostles of the Lamb?
Behold they are they who shall bjudge the twelve tribes of Israel; wherefore, the twelve ministers of thy seed shall be judged of them; for ye are of the house of Israel.
And these atwelve ministers whom thou beholdest shall judge thy seed.
And, behold, they are righteous forever; for because of their faith in the Lamb of God their bgarments are made white in his blood.
And the angel said unto me: Look!
And I looked, and beheld athree generations pass away in righteousness; and their garments were white even like unto the Lamb of God.
And the angel said unto me: These are made white in the blood of the Lamb, because of their faith in him.
And I, Nephi, also saw many of the afourth generation who passed away in righteousness.
And it came to pass that I saw the multitudes of the earth gathered together.
And the angel said unto me: Behold thy seed, and also the seed of thy brethren.
And it came to pass that I looked and beheld the people of my seed gathered together in multitudes aagainst the seed of my brethren; and they were gathered together to battle.
And the angel spake unto me, saying: Behold the fountain of afilthy water which thy father saw; yea, even the briver of which he spake; and the depths thereof are the depths of chell.
And the amists of darkness are the temptations of the devil, which bblindeth the eyes, and hardeneth the hearts of the children of men, and leadeth them away into cbroad roads, that they perish and are lost.
And the large and spacious abuilding, which thy father saw, is vain bimaginations and the cpride of the children of men.
And a great and a terrible dgulf divideth them; yea, even the word of the ejustice of the Eternal God, and the Messiah who is the Lamb of God, of whom the Holy Ghost beareth record, from the beginning of the world until this time, and from this time henceforth and forever.
And while the angel spake these words, I beheld and saw that the seed of my brethren did contend against my seed, according to the word of the angel; and because of the pride of my seed, and the atemptations of the devil, I beheld that the seed of my brethren did boverpower the people of my seed.
And it came to pass that I beheld, and saw the people of the seed of my brethren that they had overcome my seed; and they went forth in multitudes upon the face of the land.
And I saw them gathered together in multitudes; and I saw awars and rumors of wars among them; and in wars and rumors of wars I saw bmany generations pass away.
And the angel said unto me: Behold these shall adwindle in unbelief.
And it came to pass that I beheld, after they had dwindled in unbelief they became a adark, and loathsome, and a bfilthy people, full of cidleness and all manner of abominations.
 And it came to pass that the angel spake unto me, saying: Look!
And I looked and beheld many nations and kingdoms.
And the angel said unto me: What beholdest thou?
And I said: I behold many anations and kingdoms.
And he said unto me: These are the nations and kingdoms of the Gentiles.
And it came to pass that I saw among the nations of the aGentiles the formation of a bgreat church.
And the angel said unto me: Behold the formation of a achurch which is most abominable above all other churches, which bslayeth the saints of God, yea, and tortureth them and bindeth them down, and yoketh them with a cyoke of iron, and bringeth them down into captivity.
And it came to pass that I beheld this agreat and babominable church; and I saw the cdevil that he was the founder of it.
And I also saw agold, and silver, and silks, and scarlets, and fine-twined blinen, and all manner of precious clothing; and I saw many harlots.
And the angel spake unto me, saying: Behold the gold, and the silver, and the silks, and the scarlets, and the fine-twined linen, and the precious clothing, and the harlots, are the adesires of this great and abominable church.
And also for the apraise of the world do they bdestroy the saints of God, and bring them down into captivity.
And it came to pass that I looked and beheld many waters; and they divided the Gentiles from the seed of my brethren.
And it came to pass that the angel said unto me: Behold the wrath of God is upon the seed of thy brethren.
And I looked and beheld a man among the Gentiles, who was separated from the seed of my brethren by the many waters; and I beheld the Spirit of God, that it came down and awrought upon the man; and he went forth upon the many waters, even unto the seed of my brethren, who were in the promised land.
And it came to pass that I beheld the Spirit of God, that it wrought upon other Gentiles; and they went forth out of captivity, upon the many waters.
And it came to pass that I beheld many amultitudes of the Gentiles upon the bland of promise; and I beheld the wrath of God, that it was upon the seed of my brethren; and they were cscattered before the Gentiles and were smitten.
And I beheld the Spirit of the Lord, that it was upon the Gentiles, and they did prosper and aobtain the bland for their inheritance; and I beheld that they were white, and exceedingly fair and cbeautiful, like unto my people before they were dslain.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, beheld that the Gentiles who had gone forth out of captivity did humble themselves before the Lord; and the power of the Lord was awith them.
And I beheld that their mother Gentiles were gathered together upon the waters, and upon the land also, to battle against them.
And I beheld that the power of God was with them, and also that the wrath of God was upon all those that were gathered together aagainst them to battle.
And I, Nephi, beheld that the Gentiles that had gone out of captivity were adelivered by the power of God out of the hands of all other nations.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, beheld that they did prosper in the land; and I beheld a abook, and it was carried forth among them.
And the angel said unto me: Knowest thou the meaning of the book?
And I said unto him: I know not.
And he said: Behold it proceedeth out of the mouth of a Jew.
And I, Nephi, beheld it; and he said unto me: The abook that thou beholdest is a brecord of the cJews, which contains the covenants of the Lord, which he hath made unto the house of Israel; and it also containeth many of the prophecies of the holy prophets; and it is a record like unto the engravings which are upon the dplates of brass, save there are not so many; nevertheless, they contain the covenants of the Lord, which he hath made unto the house of Israel; wherefore, they are of great worth unto the Gentiles.
And the angel of the Lord said unto me: Thou hast beheld that the abook proceeded forth from the mouth of a Jew; and when it proceeded forth from the mouth of a Jew it contained the fulness of the gospel of the Lord, of whom the twelve apostles bear record; and they bear record according to the truth which is in the Lamb of God.
Wherefore, these things go forth from the aJews in purity unto the bGentiles, according to the truth which is in God.
And after they go forth by the ahand of the twelve apostles of the Lamb, from the Jews bunto the Gentiles, thou seest the formation of that cgreat and abominable dchurch, which is most abominable above all other churches; for behold, they have etaken away from the gospel of the Lamb many parts which are fplain and most precious; and also many covenants of the Lord have they taken away.
And all this have they done that they might pervert the right ways of the Lord, that they might blind the eyes and harden the hearts of the children of men.
Wherefore, thou seest that after the book hath gone forth through the hands of the great and abominable church, that there are many plain and aprecious things taken away from the book, which is the book of the Lamb of God.
And after these plain and precious things were ataken away it goeth forth unto all the nations of the Gentiles; and after it goeth forth unto all the nations of the Gentiles, yea, even across the many waters which thou hast seen with the Gentiles which have gone forth out of captivity, thou seest—because of the many plain and precious things which have been taken out of the book, which were plain unto the understanding of the children of men, according to the plainness which is in the Lamb of God—because of these things which are taken away out of the gospel of the Lamb, an exceedingly great many do stumble, yea, insomuch that Satan hath great power over them.
Nevertheless, thou beholdest that the Gentiles who have gone forth out of captivity, and have been lifted up by the power of God above all other nations, upon the face of the land which is choice above all other lands, which is the land that the Lord God hath covenanted with thy father that his seed should have for the aland of their inheritance; wherefore, thou seest that the Lord God will not suffer that the Gentiles will utterly destroy the bmixture of thy cseed, which are among thy brethren.
Neither will he suffer that the Gentiles shall adestroy the seed of thy brethren.
Neither will the Lord God suffer that the Gentiles shall forever remain in that awful state of blindness, which thou beholdest they are in, because of the plain and most precious parts of the gospel of the Lamb which have been kept back by that aabominable church, whose formation thou hast seen.
Wherefore saith the Lamb of God: I will be amerciful unto the Gentiles, unto the visiting of the remnant of the house of Israel in great judgment.
And it came to pass that the angel of the Lord spake unto me, saying: Behold, saith the Lamb of God, after I have avisited the bremnant of the house of Israel—and this remnant of whom I speak is the seed of thy father—wherefore, after I have visited them in judgment, and smitten them by the hand of the Gentiles, and after the Gentiles do cstumble exceedingly, because of the most plain and precious parts of the dgospel of the Lamb which have been kept back by that abominable church, which is the mother of harlots, saith the Lamb—I will be merciful unto the eGentiles in that day, insomuch that I will fbring forth unto them, in mine own power, much of my ggospel, which shall be plain and precious, saith the Lamb.
For, behold, saith the Lamb: I will manifest myself unto thy seed, that they shall write many things which I shall minister unto them, which shall be plain and precious; and after thy seed shall be destroyed, and dwindle in unbelief, and also the seed of thy brethren, behold, athese things shall be hid up, to come forth unto the Gentiles, by the gift and power of the Lamb.
And in them shall be written my agospel, saith the Lamb, and my brock and my salvation.
And ablessed are they who shall seek to bring forth my bZion at that day, for they shall have the cgift and the dpower of the Holy Ghost; and if they eendure unto the end they shall be flifted up at the last day, and shall be saved in the everlasting gkingdom of the Lamb; and whoso shall hpublish peace, yea, tidings of great joy, how beautiful upon the mountains shall they be.
And it came to pass that I beheld the remnant of the seed of my brethren, and also the abook of the Lamb of God, which had proceeded forth from the mouth of the Jew, that it came forth from the Gentiles bunto the remnant of the seed of my brethren.
And after it had come forth unto them I beheld aother bbooks, which came forth by the power of the Lamb, from the Gentiles unto them, unto the cconvincing of the Gentiles and the remnant of the seed of my brethren, and also the Jews who were scattered upon all the face of the earth, that the records of the prophets and of the twelve apostles of the Lamb are dtrue.
And the angel spake unto me, saying: These alast records, which thou hast seen among the Gentiles, shall bestablish the truth of the cfirst, which are of the dtwelve apostles of the Lamb, and shall make known the plain and precious things which have been taken away from them; and shall make known to all kindreds, tongues, and people, that the Lamb of God is the Son of the Eternal Father, and the eSavior of the world; and that all men must come unto him, or they cannot be saved.
And they must come according to the words which shall be established by the mouth of the Lamb; and the words of the Lamb shall be made known in the records of thy seed, as well as in the arecords of the twelve apostles of the Lamb; wherefore they both shall be established in bone; for there is cone God and one dShepherd over all the earth.
And the time cometh that he shall manifest himself unto all nations, both unto the aJews and also unto the Gentiles; and after he has manifested himself unto the Jews and also unto the Gentiles, then he shall manifest himself unto the Gentiles and also unto the Jews, and the blast shall be first, and the cfirst shall be last.
 And it shall come to pass, that if the aGentiles shall hearken unto the Lamb of God in that day that he shall manifest himself unto them in word, and also in bpower, in very deed, unto the ctaking away of their dstumbling blocks— And harden not their hearts against the Lamb of God, they shall be numbered among the seed of thy father; yea, they shall be anumbered among the house of Israel; and they shall be a bblessed people upon the cpromised land forever; they shall be no more brought down into captivity; and the house of Israel shall no more be confounded.
And that great apit, which hath been digged for them by that great and abominable church, which was founded by the devil and his children, that he might lead away the souls of men down to hell—yea, that great pit which hath been digged for the destruction of men shall be filled by those who digged it, unto their utter destruction, saith the Lamb of God; not the destruction of the soul, save it be the casting of it into that bhell which hath no end.
For behold, this is according to the acaptivity of the devil, and also according to the justice of God, upon all those who will work wickedness and abomination before him.
And it came to pass that the angel spake unto me, Nephi, saying: Thou hast beheld that if the Gentiles repent it shall be awell with them; and thou also knowest concerning the covenants of the Lord unto the house of Israel; and thou also hast heard that whoso brepenteth not must perish.
Therefore, awo be unto the Gentiles if it so be that they harden their hearts against the Lamb of God.
For the time cometh, saith the Lamb of God, that I will work a great and a amarvelous work among the children of men; a bwork which shall be everlasting, either on the one hand or on the other—either to the convincing of them unto cpeace and dlife eternal, or unto the deliverance of them to the hardness of their hearts and the blindness of their minds unto their being brought down into captivity, and also into destruction, both temporally and spiritually, according to the ecaptivity of the devil, of which I have spoken.
And it came to pass that when the angel had spoken these words, he said unto me: Rememberest thou the acovenants of the Father unto the house of Israel?
I said unto him, Yea.
And it came to pass that he said unto me: Look, and behold that great and abominable church, which is the mother of abominations, whose founder is the adevil.
And he said unto me: Behold there are save atwo churches only; the one is the church of the Lamb of God, and the bother is the church of the cdevil; wherefore, dwhoso belongeth not to the church of the Lamb of God belongeth to that great church, which is the mother of abominations; and she is the ewhore of all the earth.
And it came to pass that I looked and beheld the whore of all the earth, and she sat upon many awaters; and she had dominion over ball the earth, among all nations, kindreds, tongues, and people.
And it came to pass that I beheld the church of the Lamb of God, and its numbers were afew, because of the wickedness and abominations of the whore who sat upon many waters; nevertheless, I beheld that the church of the Lamb, who were the saints of God, were also upon ball the face of the earth; and their dominions upon the face of the earth were small, because of the wickedness of the great whore whom I saw.
And it came to pass that I beheld that the great mother of abominations did gather together multitudes upon the face of all the earth, among all the nations of the Gentiles, to afight against the Lamb of God.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, beheld the power of the Lamb of God, that it descended upon the saints of the church of the Lamb, and upon the covenant people of the Lord, who were scattered upon all the face of the earth; and they were aarmed with brighteousness and with the cpower of God in great glory.
And it came to pass that I beheld that the wrath of God was apoured out upon that great and abominable church, insomuch that there were wars and rumors of wars among all the bnations and kindreds of the earth.
And as there began to be awars and rumors of wars among all the nations which belonged to the mother of abominations, the angel spake unto me, saying: Behold, the wrath of God is upon the mother of harlots; and behold, thou seest all these things— And when the aday cometh that the bwrath of God is poured out upon the mother of harlots, which is the great and abominable church of all the earth, whose founder is the devil, then, at that day, the cwork of the Father shall commence, in preparing the way for the fulfilling of his dcovenants, which he hath made to his people who are of the house of Israel.
And it came to pass that the angel spake unto me, saying: Look!
And I looked and beheld a man, and he was dressed in a white robe.
And the angel said unto me: Behold aone of the twelve apostles of the Lamb.
Behold, he shall asee and bwrite the cremainder of these things; yea, and also many things which have been.
And he shall also write concerning the end of the world.
Wherefore, the things which he shall write are just and true; and behold they are written in the abook which thou beheld proceeding out of the mouth of the Jew; and at the time they proceeded out of the mouth of the Jew, or, at the time the book proceeded out of the mouth of the Jew, the things which were written were plain and pure, and most bprecious and easy to the understanding of all men.
And behold, the things which this aapostle of the Lamb shall write are many things which thou hast seen; and behold, the remainder shalt thou see.
But the things which thou shalt see hereafter thou shalt not write; for the Lord God hath ordained the apostle of the Lamb of God that he should awrite them.
And also others who have been, to them hath he shown all things, and they have awritten them; and they are bsealed up to come forth in their purity, according to the truth which is in the Lamb, in the own due time of the Lord, unto the house of Israel.
And I, Nephi, heard and bear record, that the name of the apostle of the Lamb was aJohn, according to the word of the angel.
And behold, I, Nephi, am forbidden that I should write the remainder of the things which I saw and heard; wherefore the things which I have written sufficeth me; and I have written but a small part of the things which I saw.
And I bear record that I saw the things which my afather saw, and the angel of the Lord did make them known unto me.
And now I make an end of speaking concerning the things which I saw while I was acarried away in the Spirit; and if all the things which I saw are not written, the things which I have written are btrue.
And thus it is.
Amen.
 And it came to pass that after I, Nephi, had been carried away in the Spirit, and seen all these things, I returned to the tent of my father.
And it came to pass that I beheld my brethren, and they were disputing one with another concerning the things which my father had spoken unto them.
For he truly spake many great things unto them, which were hard to be aunderstood, save a man should inquire of the Lord; and they being hard in their hearts, therefore they did not look unto the Lord as they ought.
And now I, Nephi, was grieved because of the hardness of their hearts, and also, because of the things which I had seen, and knew they must unavoidably come to pass because of the great wickedness of the children of men.
And it came to pass that I was overcome because of my afflictions, for I considered that mine aafflictions were great above all, because of the bdestruction of my people, for I had beheld their fall.
And it came to pass that after I had received astrength I spake unto my brethren, desiring to know of them the cause of their disputations.
And they said: Behold, we cannot understand the words which our father hath spoken concerning the natural branches of the aolive tree, and also concerning the Gentiles.
And I said unto them: Have ye ainquired of the Lord?
And they said unto me: aWe have not; for the Lord maketh no such thing known unto us.
Behold, I said unto them: How is it that ye do not keep the commandments of the Lord?
How is it that ye will aperish, because of the hardness of your hearts?
Do ye not remember the things which the Lord hath said?—If ye will not harden your hearts, and aask me in bfaith, believing that ye shall receive, with diligence in keeping my commandments, surely these things shall be made known unto you.
Behold, I say unto you, that the house of Israel was compared unto an olive tree, by the Spirit of the Lord which was in our father; and behold are we not broken off from the house of Israel, and are we not a abranch of the house of Israel?
And now, the thing which our father meaneth concerning the grafting in of the natural branches through the fulness of the Gentiles, is, that in the latter days, when our seed shall have adwindled in unbelief, yea, for the space of many years, and many generations after the bMessiah shall be manifested in body unto the children of men, then shall the fulness of the cgospel of the Messiah come unto the Gentiles, and from the dGentiles unto the remnant of our seed— And at that day shall the remnant of our aseed bknow that they are of the house of Israel, and that they are the ccovenant people of the Lord; and then shall they know and dcome to the eknowledge of their forefathers, and also to the knowledge of the gospel of their Redeemer, which was ministered unto their fathers by him; wherefore, they shall come to the knowledge of their Redeemer and the very points of his doctrine, that they may know how to come unto him and be saved.
And then at that day will they not rejoice and give praise unto their everlasting God, their arock and their salvation?
Yea, at that day, will they not receive the strength and nourishment from the true bvine?
Yea, will they not come unto the true fold of God?
Behold, I say unto you, Yea; they shall be remembered again among the house of Israel; they shall be agrafted in, being a natural branch of the olive tree, into the true olive tree.
And this is what our father meaneth; and he meaneth that it will not come to pass until after they are scattered by the Gentiles; and he meaneth that it shall come by way of the Gentiles, that the Lord may show his power unto the Gentiles, for the very cause that he shall be arejected of the Jews, or of the house of Israel.
Wherefore, our father hath not spoken of our seed alone, but also of all the house of Israel, pointing to the covenant which should be fulfilled in the latter days; which covenant the Lord made to our father Abraham, saying: In thy aseed shall all the kindreds of the earth be bblessed.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, spake much unto them concerning these things; yea, I spake unto them concerning the arestoration of the Jews in the latter days.
And I did rehearse unto them the words of aIsaiah, who spake bconcerning the crestoration of the Jews, or of the house of Israel; and after they were restored they should no more be confounded, neither should they be scattered again.
And it came to pass that I did speak many words unto my brethren, that they were pacified and did dhumble themselves before the Lord.
And it came to pass that they did speak unto me again, saying: What meaneth this thing which our father saw in a dream?
What meaneth the atree which he saw?
And I said unto them: It was a representation of the atree of life.
And they said unto me: What meaneth the arod of iron which our father saw, that led to the tree?
And I said unto them that it was the aword of God; and whoso would hearken unto the word of God, and would bhold fast unto it, they would never perish; neither could the ctemptations and the fiery ddarts of the eadversary overpower them unto blindness, to lead them away to destruction.
Wherefore, I, Nephi, did exhort them to give aheed unto the word of the Lord; yea, I did exhort them with all the energies of my soul, and with all the bfaculty which I possessed, that they would give heed to the word of God and remember to keep his commandments always in all things.
And they said unto me: What meaneth the ariver of water which our father saw?
And I said unto them that the awater which my father saw was bfilthiness; and so much was his mind swallowed up in other things that he beheld not the filthiness of the water.
And I said unto them that it was an awful agulf, which separated the wicked from the tree of life, and also from the saints of God.
And I said unto them that it was a representation of that awful ahell, which the angel said unto me was prepared for the wicked.
And I said unto them that our father also saw that the ajustice of God did also divide the wicked from the righteous; and the brightness thereof was like unto the brightness of a flaming bfire, which ascendeth up unto God forever and ever, and hath no end.
And they said unto me: Doth this thing mean the torment of the body in the days of aprobation, or doth it mean the final state of the soul after the bdeath of the temporal body, or doth it speak of the things which are temporal?
And it came to pass that I said unto them that it was a representation of things both temporal and spiritual; for the day should come that they must be judged of their aworks, yea, even the works which were done by the temporal body in their days of bprobation.
Wherefore, if they should adie in their wickedness they must be bcast off also, as to the things which are spiritual, which are pertaining to righteousness; wherefore, they must be brought to stand before God, to be cjudged of their dworks; and if their works have been filthiness they must needs be efilthy; and if they be filthy it must needs be that they cannot fdwell in the kingdom of God; if so, the kingdom of God must be filthy also.
But behold, I say unto you, the kingdom of God is not filthy, and there cannot any unclean thing enter into the kingdom of God; wherefore there must needs be a place of afilthiness prepared for that which is filthy.
And there is a place prepared, yea, even that aawful bhell of which I have spoken, and the cdevil is the preparator of it; wherefore the final state of the souls of men is to dwell in the kingdom of God, or to be cast out because of that djustice of which I have spoken.
Wherefore, the wicked are rejected from the righteous, and also from that atree of life, whose fruit is most precious and most bdesirable above all other fruits; yea, and it is the cgreatest of all the dgifts of God.
And thus I spake unto my brethren.
Amen.
 And now it came to pass that after I, Nephi, had made an end of speaking to my brethren, behold they said unto me: Thou hast declared unto us hard things, more than we are able to bear.
And it came to pass that I said unto them that I knew that I had spoken ahard things against the wicked, according to the truth; and the righteous have I justified, and testified that they should be lifted up at the last day; wherefore, the bguilty taketh the ctruth to be hard, for it dcutteth them to the very center.
And now my brethren, if ye were righteous and were willing to hearken to the truth, and give heed unto it, that ye might awalk uprightly before God, then ye would not murmur because of the truth, and say: Thou speakest hard things against us.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, did exhort my brethren, with all diligence, to keep the commandments of the Lord.
And it came to pass that they did ahumble themselves before the Lord; insomuch that I had joy and great hopes of them, that they would walk in the paths of righteousness.
Now, all these things were said and done as my father dwelt in a tent in the avalley which he called Lemuel.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, took one of the adaughters of Ishmael to bwife; and also, my brethren took of the cdaughters of Ishmael to wife; and also dZoram took the eldest daughter of Ishmael to wife.
And thus my father had fulfilled all the acommandments of the Lord which had been given unto him.
And also, I, Nephi, had been blessed of the Lord exceedingly.
And it came to pass that the voice of the Lord spake unto my father by night, and commanded him that on the morrow he should take his ajourney into the wilderness.
And it came to pass that as my father arose in the morning, and went forth to the tent door, to his great astonishment he beheld upon the ground a round aball of curious workmanship; and it was of fine brass.
And within the ball were two spindles; and the one bpointed the way whither we should go into the wilderness.
And it came to pass that we did gather together whatsoever things we should carry into the wilderness, and all the remainder of our provisions which the Lord had given unto us; and we did take aseed of every kind that we might carry into the wilderness.
And it came to pass that we did take our tents and depart into the wilderness, across the river Laman.
And it came to pass that we traveled for the space of four days, nearly a south-southeast direction, and we did pitch our tents again; and we did call the name of the place aShazer.
And it came to pass that we did take our bows and our arrows, and go forth into the wilderness to slay food for our families; and after we had slain food for our families we did return again to our families in the wilderness, to the place of Shazer.
And we did go forth again in the wilderness, following the same direction, keeping in the most fertile parts of the wilderness, which were in the borders near the aRed Sea.
And it came to pass that we did travel for the space of many days, aslaying food by the way, with our bows and our arrows and our stones and our slings.
And we did follow the adirections of the ball, which led us in the more fertile parts of the wilderness.
And after we had traveled for the space of many days, we did pitch our tents for the space of a time, that we might again rest ourselves and obtain food for our families.
And it came to pass that as I, Nephi, went forth to slay food, behold, I did break my bow, which was made of fine asteel; and after I did break my bow, behold, my brethren were angry with me because of the loss of my bow, for we did obtain no food.
And it came to pass that we did return without food to our families, and being much fatigued, because of their journeying, they did suffer much for the want of food.
And it came to pass that Laman and Lemuel and the sons of Ishmael did begin to murmur exceedingly, because of their sufferings and afflictions in the wilderness; and also my father began to murmur against the Lord his God; yea, and they were all exceedingly sorrowful, even that they did amurmur against the Lord.
Now it came to pass that I, Nephi, having been afflicted with my brethren because of the loss of my bow, and their bows having lost their asprings, it began to be exceedingly difficult, yea, insomuch that we could obtain no food.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, did speak much unto my brethren, because they had hardened their hearts again, even unto acomplaining against the Lord their God.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, did amake out of wood a bow, and out of a straight stick, an arrow; wherefore, I did arm myself with a bow and an arrow, with a sling and with stones.
And I said unto my bfather: Whither shall I go to obtain food?
And it came to pass that he did ainquire of the Lord, for they had bhumbled themselves because of my words; for I did say many things unto them in the energy of my soul.
And it came to pass that the voice of the Lord came unto my father; and he was truly achastened because of his murmuring against the Lord, insomuch that he was brought down into the depths of sorrow.
And it came to pass that the voice of the Lord said unto him: Look upon the ball, and behold the things which are written.
And it came to pass that when my father beheld the things which were awritten upon the ball, he did fear and tremble exceedingly, and also my brethren and the sons of Ishmael and our wives.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, beheld the pointers which were in the ball, that they did work according to the afaith and diligence and heed which we did give unto them.
And there was also written upon them a new writing, which was plain to be read, which did give us aunderstanding concerning the ways of the Lord; and it was written and changed from time to time, according to the faith and diligence which we gave unto it.
And thus we see that by bsmall means the Lord can bring about great things.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, did go forth up into the top of the mountain, according to the adirections which were given upon the ball.
And it came to pass that I did slay wild abeasts, insomuch that I did obtain food for our families.
And it came to pass that I did return to our tents, bearing the beasts which I had slain; and now when they beheld that I had obtained afood, how great was their joy!
And it came to pass that they did humble themselves before the Lord, and did give thanks unto him.
And it came to pass that we did again take our journey, traveling nearly the same course as in the beginning; and after we had traveled for the space of many days we did pitch our tents again, that we might tarry for the space of a time.
And it came to pass that aIshmael died, and was buried in the place which was called bNahom.
And it came to pass that the daughters of Ishmael did amourn exceedingly, because of the loss of their father, and because of their bafflictions in the wilderness; and they did cmurmur against my father, because he had brought them out of the land of Jerusalem, saying: Our father is dead; yea, and we have wandered much in the wilderness, and we have suffered much affliction, hunger, thirst, and fatigue; and after all these sufferings we must perish in the wilderness with hunger.
And thus they did murmur against my father, and also against me; and they were desirous to areturn again to Jerusalem.
And Laman said unto Lemuel and also unto the sons of Ishmael: Behold, let us aslay our father, and also our brother Nephi, who has taken it upon him to be our bruler and our teacher, who are his elder brethren.
Now, he says that the Lord has talked with him, and also that aangels have ministered unto him.
But behold, we know that he lies unto us; and he tells us these things, and he worketh many things by his cunning arts, that he may deceive our eyes, thinking, perhaps, that he may lead us away into some strange wilderness; and after he has led us away, he has thought to make himself a king and a ruler over us, that he may do with us according to his will and pleasure.
And after this manner did my brother Laman bstir up their hearts to canger.
And it came to pass that the Lord was with us, yea, even the voice of the Lord came and did speak many words unto them, and did achasten them exceedingly; and after they were chastened by the voice of the Lord they did turn away their anger, and did repent of their sins, insomuch that the Lord did bless us again with food, that we did not perish.
 And it came to pass that we did again take our journey in the wilderness; and we did travel nearly eastward from that time forth.
And we did travel and awade through much affliction in the wilderness; and our bwomen did bear children in the wilderness.
And so great were the ablessings of the Lord upon us, that while we did live upon braw cmeat in the wilderness, our women did give plenty of suck for their children, and were strong, yea, even like unto the men; and they began to bear their journeyings without murmurings.
And thus we see that the commandments of God must be fulfilled.
And if it so be that the children of men keep the commandments of God he doth nourish them, and astrengthen them, and provide means whereby they can accomplish the thing which he has commanded them; wherefore, he did bprovide means for us while we did sojourn in the wilderness.
And we did sojourn for the space of many years, yea, even eight years in the wilderness.
And we did come to the land which we called aBountiful, because of its much fruit and also wild honey; and all these things were prepared of the Lord that we might not perish.
And we beheld the sea, which we called Irreantum, which, being interpreted, is many waters.
And it came to pass that we did pitch our tents by the seashore; and notwithstanding we had suffered many aafflictions and much difficulty, yea, even so much that we cannot write them all, we were exceedingly rejoiced when we came to the seashore; and we called the place Bountiful, because of its much fruit.
And it came to pass that after I, Nephi, had been in the land of Bountiful for the space of many days, the voice of the Lord came unto me, saying: aArise, and get thee into the mountain.
And it came to pass that I arose and went up into the mountain, and cried unto the Lord.
And it came to pass that the Lord spake unto me, saying: Thou shalt aconstruct a ship, after the bmanner which I shall show thee, that I may carry thy people across these waters.
And I said: Lord, whither shall I go that I may find ore to molten, that I may make atools to construct the ship after the manner which thou hast shown unto me?
And it came to pass that the Lord told me whither I should go to find ore, that I might make tools.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, did make a bellows wherewith to ablow the fire, of the skins of beasts; and after I had made a bellows, that I might have wherewith to blow the fire, I did smite two stones together that I might make fire.
For the Lord had not hitherto suffered that we should make much fire, as we journeyed in the wilderness; for he said: I will make thy food become sweet, that ye acook it not; And I will also be your alight in the wilderness; and I will prepare the way before you, if it so be that ye shall keep my commandments; wherefore, inasmuch as ye shall keep my commandments ye shall be led towards the bpromised land; and ye shall cknow that it is by me that ye are led.
Yea, and the Lord said also that: After ye have arrived in the promised land, ye shall aknow that I, the Lord, am bGod; and that I, the Lord, did cdeliver you from destruction; yea, that I did bring you out of the land of Jerusalem.
Wherefore, I, Nephi, did strive to keep the acommandments of the Lord, and I did bexhort my brethren to faithfulness and diligence.
And it came to pass that I did amake tools of the ore which I did molten out of the rock.
And when my brethren saw that I was about to abuild a ship, they began to bmurmur against me, saying: Our brother is a fool, for he thinketh that he can build a ship; yea, and he also thinketh that he can cross these great waters.
And thus my brethren did acomplain against me, and were desirous that they might not labor, for they did not bbelieve that I could build a ship; neither would they believe that I was instructed of the Lord.
And now it came to pass that I, Nephi, was exceedingly sorrowful because of the hardness of their hearts; and now when they saw that I began to be sorrowful they were glad in their hearts, insomuch that they did arejoice over me, saying: We knew that ye could not construct a ship, for we knew that ye were lacking in judgment; wherefore, thou canst not accomplish so great a work.
And thou art like unto our father, led away by the foolish aimaginations of his heart; yea, he hath led us out of the land of Jerusalem, and we have wandered in the wilderness for these many years; and our women have toiled, being big with child; and they have borne children in the wilderness and suffered all things, save it were death; and it would have been better that they had died before they came out of Jerusalem than to have suffered these afflictions.
Behold, these many years we have suffered in the wilderness, which time we might have enjoyed our possessions and the land of our inheritance; yea, and we might have been happy.
And we know that the people who were in the land of Jerusalem were a arighteous people; for they kept the statutes and judgments of the Lord, and all his commandments, according to the law of Moses; wherefore, we know that they are a righteous people; and our father hath judged them, and hath led us away because we would hearken unto his words; yea, and our brother is like unto him.
And after this manner of language did my brethren murmur and complain against us.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, spake unto them, saying: Do ye believe that our fathers, who were the children of Israel, would have been led away out of the hands of the aEgyptians if they had not hearkened unto the words of the Lord?
Yea, do ye suppose that they would have been led out of bondage, if the Lord had not commanded Moses that he should alead them out of bondage?
Now ye know that the children of Israel were in abondage; and ye know that they were laden with btasks, which were grievous to be borne; wherefore, ye know that it must needs be a good thing for them, that they should be cbrought out of bondage.
Now ye know that aMoses was commanded of the Lord to do that great work; and ye know that by his bword the waters of the Red Sea were divided hither and thither, and they passed through on dry ground.
But ye know that the Egyptians were adrowned in the Red Sea, who were the armies of Pharaoh.
And ye also know that they were fed with amanna in the wilderness.
Yea, and ye also know that Moses, by his word according to the power of God which was in him, asmote the rock, and there came forth water, that the children of Israel might quench their thirst.
And notwithstanding they being led, the Lord their God, their Redeemer, going before them, aleading them by day and giving light unto them by night, and doing all things for them which were bexpedient for man to receive, they hardened their hearts and blinded their minds, and creviled against Moses and against the true and living God.
And it came to pass that according to his word he did adestroy them; and according to his word he did blead them; and according to his word he did do all things for them; and there was not any thing done save it were by his word.
And after they had crossed the river Jordan he did make them mighty unto the adriving out of the children of the land, yea, unto the scattering them to destruction.
And now, do ye suppose that the children of this land, who were in the land of promise, who were driven out by our fathers, do ye suppose that they were righteous?
Behold, I say unto you, Nay.
Do ye suppose that our fathers would have been more choice than they if they had been righteous?
I say unto you, Nay.
Behold, the Lord esteemeth all aflesh in one; he that is brighteous is cfavored of God.
But behold, this dpeople had rejected every word of God, and they were ripe in iniquity; and the fulness of the wrath of God was upon them; and the Lord did curse the land against them, and bless it unto our fathers; yea, he did curse it against them unto their destruction, and he did bless it unto our fathers unto their obtaining power over it.
Behold, the Lord hath created the aearth that it should be binhabited; and he hath created his children that they should possess it.
And he araiseth up a righteous nation, and destroyeth the nations of the wicked.
And he leadeth away the righteous into precious alands, and the wicked he bdestroyeth, and curseth the land unto them for their sakes.
He ruleth high in the heavens, for it is his throne, and this earth is his afootstool.
And he loveth those who will have him to be their God.
Behold, he loved our afathers, and he bcovenanted with them, yea, even Abraham, cIsaac, and dJacob; and he remembered the covenants which he had made; wherefore, he did bring them out of the land of eEgypt.
And he did straiten them in the wilderness with his rod; for they ahardened their hearts, even as ye have; and the Lord straitened them because of their iniquity.
He sent fiery flying bserpents among them; and after they were bitten he prepared a way that they might be chealed; and the labor which they had to perform was to look; and because of the dsimpleness of the way, or the easiness of it, there were many who perished.
And they did harden their hearts from time to time, and they did arevile against bMoses, and also against God; nevertheless, ye know that they were led forth by his matchless power into the land of promise.
And now, after all these things, the time has come that they have become wicked, yea, nearly unto ripeness; and I know not but they are at this day about to be adestroyed; for I know that the day must surely come that they must be destroyed, save a few only, who shall be led away into captivity.
Wherefore, the Lord acommanded my father that he should depart into the wilderness; and the Jews also sought to take away his life; yea, and bye also have sought to take away his life; wherefore, ye are murderers in your hearts and ye are like unto them.
Ye are aswift to do iniquity but slow to remember the Lord your God.
Ye have seen an bangel, and he spake unto you; yea, ye have heard his voice from time to time; and he hath spoken unto you in a still small voice, but ye were cpast feeling, that ye could not feel his words; wherefore, he has spoken unto you like unto the voice of thunder, which did cause the earth to shake as if it were to divide asunder.
And ye also know that by the apower of his almighty word he can cause the earth that it shall pass away; yea, and ye know that by his word he can cause the rough places to be made smooth, and smooth places shall be broken up.
O, then, why is it, that ye can be so hard in your hearts?
Behold, my soul is rent with anguish because of you, and my heart is pained; I fear lest ye shall be cast off forever.
Behold, I am afull of the Spirit of God, insomuch that my frame has bno strength.
And now it came to pass that when I had spoken these words they were angry with me, and were desirous to throw me into the depths of the sea; and as they came forth to lay their hands upon me I spake unto them, saying: In the name of the Almighty God, I command you that ye atouch me not, for I am filled with the bpower of God, even unto the consuming of my flesh; and whoso shall lay his hands upon me shall cwither even as a dried reed; and he shall be as naught before the power of God, for God shall smite him.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, said unto them that they should murmur no more against their father; neither should they withhold their labor from me, for God had commanded me that I should abuild a ship.
And I said unto them: aIf God had commanded me to do all things I could do them.
If he should command me that I should say unto this water, be thou earth, it should be earth; and if I should say it, it would be done.
And now, if the Lord has such great power, and has wrought so many miracles among the children of men, how is it that he cannot ainstruct me, that I should build a ship?
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, said many things unto my brethren, insomuch that they were aconfounded and could not contend against me; neither durst they lay their hands upon me nor touch me with their fingers, even for the space of many days.
Now they durst not do this lest they should wither before me, so powerful was the bSpirit of God; and thus it had wrought upon them.
And it came to pass that the Lord said unto me: Stretch forth thine hand again unto thy brethren, and they shall not wither before thee, but I will ashock them, saith the Lord, and this will I do, that they may know that I am the Lord their God.
And it came to pass that I stretched forth my hand unto my brethren, and they did not wither before me; but the Lord did shake them, even according to the word which he had spoken.
And now, they said: We know of a surety that the Lord is awith thee, for we know that it is the power of the Lord that has shaken us.
And they fell down before me, and were about to bworship me, but I would not suffer them, saying: I am thy brother, yea, even thy younger brother; wherefore, worship the Lord thy God, and honor thy father and thy mother, that thy cdays may be long in the land which the Lord thy God shall give thee.
 And it came to pass that they did aworship the Lord, and did go forth with me; and we did work timbers of curious bworkmanship.
And the Lord did show me from time to time after what manner I should work the timbers of the cship.
Now I, Nephi, did not work the timbers after the manner which was learned by men, neither did I build the ship after the manner of men; but I did build it after the manner which the Lord had shown unto me; wherefore, it was not after the manner of men.
And I, Nephi, did go into the mount oft, and I did apray oft unto the Lord; wherefore the Lord bshowed unto me cgreat things.
And it came to pass that after I had finished the ship, according to the word of the Lord, my brethren beheld that it was good, and that the workmanship thereof was exceedingly fine; wherefore, they did ahumble themselves again before the Lord.
And it came to pass that the voice of the Lord came unto my father, that we should arise and go down into the ship.
And it came to pass that on the morrow, after we had prepared all things, much fruits and ameat from the wilderness, and honey in abundance, and provisions according to that which the Lord had commanded us, we did go down into the ship, with all our loading and our bseeds, and whatsoever thing we had brought with us, every one according to his age; wherefore, we did all go down into the cship, with our wives and our children.
And now, my father had begat two sons in the wilderness; the elder was called aJacob and the younger bJoseph.
And it came to pass after we had all gone down into the ship, and had taken with us our provisions and things which had been commanded us, we did put forth into the asea and were driven forth before the wind towards the bpromised land.
And after we had been adriven forth before the wind for the space of many days, behold, my brethren and the sons of Ishmael and also their wives began to make themselves merry, insomuch that they began to dance, and to sing, and to speak with much brudeness, yea, even that they did forget by what power they had been brought thither; yea, they were lifted up unto exceeding rudeness.
And I, Nephi, began to fear exceedingly lest the Lord should be angry with us, and smite us because of our iniquity, that we should be swallowed up in the depths of the sea; wherefore, I, Nephi, began to speak to them with much soberness; but behold they were aangry with me, saying: We will not that our younger brother shall be a bruler over us.
And it came to pass that Laman and Lemuel did take me and abind me with cords, and they did treat me with much harshness; nevertheless, the Lord did suffer it that he might show forth his power, unto the fulfilling of his word which he had bspoken concerning the wicked.
And it came to pass that after they had bound me insomuch that I could not move, the acompass, which had been prepared of the Lord, did cease to work.
Wherefore, they knew not whither they should steer the ship, insomuch that there arose a great astorm, yea, a great and terrible tempest, and we were bdriven back upon the waters for the space of three days; and they began to be frightened exceedingly lest they should be drowned in the sea; nevertheless they did not loose me.
And on the fourth day, which we had been driven back, the tempest began to be exceedingly sore.
And it came to pass that we were about to be swallowed up in the depths of the sea.
And after we had been driven back upon the waters for the space of four days, my brethren began to asee that the judgments of God were upon them, and that they must perish save that they should repent of their iniquities; wherefore, they came unto me, and loosed the bands which were upon my wrists, and behold they had swollen exceedingly; and also mine ankles were much swollen, and great was the soreness thereof.
Nevertheless, I did look unto my God, and I did apraise him all the day long; and I did not murmur against the Lord because of mine afflictions.
Now my father, Lehi, had said many things unto them, and also unto the sons of aIshmael; but, behold, they did breathe out much threatenings against anyone that should speak for me; and my parents being bstricken in years, and having csuffered much grief because of their dchildren, they were brought down, yea, even upon their sick-beds.
Because of their grief and much sorrow, and the iniquity of my brethren, they were brought near even to be carried out of this time to meet their God; yea, their agrey hairs were about to be brought down to lie low in the dust; yea, even they were near to be cast with sorrow into a watery grave.
And Jacob and Joseph also, being young, having need of much nourishment, were grieved because of the afflictions of their mother; and also amy wife with her tears and prayers, and also my children, did not soften the hearts of my brethren that they would loose me.
And there was nothing save it were the power of God, which threatened them with destruction, could soften their ahearts; wherefore, when they saw that they were about to be swallowed up in the depths of the sea they repented of the thing which they had done, insomuch that they loosed me.
And it came to pass after they had loosed me, behold, I took the compass, and it did work whither I desired it.
And it came to pass that I aprayed unto the Lord; and after I had prayed the winds did cease, and the storm did cease, and there was a great calm.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, did guide the ship, that we sailed again towards the promised land.
And it came to pass that after we had sailed for the space of many days we did arrive at the apromised land; and we went forth upon the land, and did pitch our tents; and we did call it the promised land.
And it came to pass that we did begin to till the earth, and we began to plant seeds; yea, we did put all our aseeds into the earth, which we had brought from the land of Jerusalem.
And it came to pass that they did grow exceedingly; wherefore, we were blessed in abundance.
And it came to pass that we did find upon the land of promise, as we journeyed in the wilderness, that there were abeasts in the forests of every kind, both the cow and the ox, and the ass and the horse, and the goat and the wild goat, and all manner of wild animals, which were for the use of men.
And we did find all manner of bore, both of cgold, and of silver, and of copper.
 And it came to pass that the Lord commanded me, wherefore I did make plates of ore that I might engraven upon them the arecord of my people.
And upon the plates which I made I did bengraven the record of my cfather, and also our journeyings in the wilderness, and the prophecies of my father; and also many of mine own prophecies have I engraven upon them.
And I knew not at the time when I made them that I should be commanded of the Lord to make athese plates; wherefore, the record of my father, and the genealogy of his fathers, and the more part of all our proceedings in the wilderness are engraven upon those first plates of which I have spoken; wherefore, the things which transpired before I made bthese plates are, of a truth, more particularly made mention upon the first plates.
And after I had made these plates by way of commandment, I, Nephi, received a commandment that the ministry and the prophecies, the more plain and precious parts of them, should be written upon athese plates; and that the things which were written should be kept for the instruction of my people, who should possess the land, and also for other bwise purposes, which purposes are known unto the Lord.
Wherefore, I, Nephi, did make a record upon the aother plates, which gives an account, or which gives a greater account of the wars and contentions and destructions of my people.
And this have I done, and commanded my people what they should do after I was gone; and that these plates should be handed down from one generation to another, or from one prophet to another, until further commandments of the Lord.
And an account of my amaking these plates shall be given hereafter; and then, behold, I proceed according to that which I have spoken; and this I do that the more sacred things may be bkept for the knowledge of my people.
Nevertheless, I do not awrite anything upon plates save it be that I think it be bsacred.
And now, if I do err, even did they err of old; not that I would excuse myself because of other men, but because of the cweakness which is in me, according to the flesh, I would excuse myself.
For the things which some men esteem to be of great worth, both to the body and soul, others set at anaught and trample under their feet.
Yea, even the very God of Israel do men btrample under their feet; I say, trample under their feet but I would speak in other words—they set him at naught, and chearken not to the voice of his counsels.
And behold he acometh, according to the words of the angel, in bsix hundred years from the time my father left Jerusalem.
And the world, because of their iniquity, shall judge him to be a thing of naught; wherefore they scourge him, and he suffereth it; and they smite him, and he suffereth it.
Yea, they aspit upon him, and he suffereth it, because of his loving bkindness and his clong-suffering towards the children of men.
And the aGod of our fathers, who were bled out of Egypt, out of bondage, and also were preserved in the wilderness by him, yea, the cGod of Abraham, and of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, dyieldeth himself, according to the words of the angel, as a man, into the hands of ewicked men, to be flifted up, according to the words of gZenock, and to be hcrucified, according to the words of Neum, and to be buried in a isepulchre, according to the words of jZenos, which he spake concerning the three days of kdarkness, which should be a sign given of his death unto those who should inhabit the isles of the sea, more especially given unto those who are of the lhouse of Israel.
For thus spake the prophet: The Lord God surely shall avisit all the house of Israel at that day, some with his bvoice, because of their righteousness, unto their great joy and salvation, and others with the cthunderings and the lightnings of his power, by tempest, by fire, and by dsmoke, and evapor of fdarkness, and by the opening of the gearth, and by hmountains which shall be carried up.
And aall these things must surely come, saith the prophet bZenos.
And the crocks of the earth must rend; and because of the dgroanings of the earth, many of the kings of the isles of the sea shall be wrought upon by the Spirit of God, to exclaim: The God of nature suffers.
And as for those who are at Jerusalem, saith the prophet, they shall be ascourged by all people, because they crucify the God of Israel, and turn their hearts aside, rejecting signs and wonders, and the power and glory of the God of Israel.
And because they turn their hearts aside, saith the prophet, and have adespised the Holy One of Israel, they shall wander in the flesh, and perish, and become a bhiss and a cbyword, and be dhated among all nations.
Nevertheless, when that day cometh, saith the prophet, that they ano more bturn aside their hearts against the Holy One of Israel, then will he remember the ccovenants which he made to their fathers.
Yea, then will he remember the aisles of the sea; yea, and all the people who are of the house of Israel, will I bgather in, saith the Lord, according to the words of the prophet Zenos, from the four quarters of the earth.
Yea, and all the earth shall asee the salvation of the Lord, saith the prophet; every nation, kindred, tongue and people shall be blessed.
And I, Nephi, have written these things unto my people, that perhaps I might persuade them that they would aremember the Lord their Redeemer.
Wherefore, I speak unto all the house of Israel, if it so be that they should obtain athese things.
For behold, I have workings in the spirit, which doth aweary me even that all my joints are weak, for those who are at Jerusalem; for had not the Lord been merciful, to show unto me concerning them, even as he had prophets of old, I should have perished also.
And he surely did show unto the aprophets of old all things bconcerning them; and also he did show unto many concerning us; wherefore, it must needs be that we know concerning them for they are written upon the plates of brass.
Now it came to pass that I, Nephi, did teach my brethren these things; and it came to pass that I did read many things to them, which were engraven upon the aplates of brass, that they might know concerning the doings of the Lord in other lands, among people of old.
And I did read many things unto them which were written in the abooks of Moses; but that I might more fully persuade them to believe in the Lord their Redeemer I did read unto them that which was written by the prophet bIsaiah; for I did cliken all scriptures unto us, that it might be for our dprofit and learning.
Wherefore I spake unto them, saying: Hear ye the words of the prophet, ye who are a aremnant of the house of Israel, a bbranch who have been broken off; chear ye the words of the prophet, which were written unto all the house of Israel, and liken them unto yourselves, that ye may have hope as well as your brethren from whom ye have been broken off; for after this manner has the prophet written.
 For behold, it came to pass that the Lord spake unto my father, yea, even in a dream, and said unto him: Blessed art thou Lehi, because of the things which thou hast done; and because thou hast been faithful and declared unto this people the things which I commanded thee, behold, they seek to atake away thy blife.
And it came to pass that the Lord acommanded my father, even in a bdream, that he should ctake his family and depart into the wilderness.
And it came to pass that he was aobedient unto the word of the Lord, wherefore he did as the Lord commanded him.
And it came to pass that he departed into the wilderness.
And he left his house, and the land of his inheritance, and his gold, and his silver, and his precious things, and took nothing with him, save it were his family, and provisions, and tents, and adeparted into the wilderness.
And he came down by the borders near the shore of the aRed Sea; and he traveled in the wilderness in the borders which are nearer the Red Sea; and he did travel in the wilderness with his family, which consisted of my mother, Sariah, and my elder brothers, who were Laman, Lemuel, and Sam.
And it came to pass that when he had traveled three days in the wilderness, he pitched his tent in a avalley by the side of a briver of water.
And it came to pass that he built an aaltar of bstones, and made an coffering unto the Lord, and gave dthanks unto the Lord our God.
And it came to pass that he called the name of the river, Laman, and it emptied into the Red Sea; and the valley was in the borders near the mouth thereof.
And when my father saw that the waters of the river emptied into the afountain of the Red Sea, he spake unto Laman, saying: O that thou mightest be like unto this river, continually running into the fountain of all righteousness!
And he also spake unto Lemuel: O that thou mightest be like unto this valley, afirm and bsteadfast, and immovable in keeping the commandments of the Lord!
Now this he spake because of the astiffneckedness of Laman and Lemuel; for behold they did bmurmur in many things against their cfather, because he was a dvisionary man, and had led them out of the land of Jerusalem, to leave the land of their inheritance, and their gold, and their silver, and their precious things, to perish in the wilderness.
And this they said he had done because of the foolish imaginations of his heart.
And thus Laman and Lemuel, being the eldest, did murmur against their afather.
And they did bmurmur because they cknew not the dealings of that God who had dcreated them.
Neither did they abelieve that Jerusalem, that great city, could be bdestroyed according to the words of the prophets.
And they were like unto the Jews who were at Jerusalem, who sought to take away the life of my father.
And it came to pass that my father did speak unto them in the avalley of Lemuel, with bpower, being filled with the Spirit, until their frames did cshake before him.
And he did confound them, that they durst not utter against him; wherefore, they did as he commanded them.
And my father dwelt in a atent.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, being exceedingly young, nevertheless being large in stature, and also having great desires to know of the amysteries of God, wherefore, I did cry unto the Lord; and behold he did bvisit me, and did csoften my heart that I did dbelieve all the words which had been spoken by my efather; wherefore, I did not frebel against him like unto my brothers.
And I spake unto Sam, making known unto him the things which the Lord had manifested unto me by his Holy Spirit.
And it came to pass that he believed in my words.
But, behold, Laman and Lemuel would not hearken unto my words; and being agrieved because of the hardness of their hearts I cried unto the Lord for them.
And it came to pass that the Lord spake unto me, saying: Blessed art thou, Nephi, because of thy afaith, for thou hast sought me diligently, with lowliness of heart.
And inasmuch as ye shall keep my commandments, ye shall aprosper, and shall be led to a bland of promise; yea, even a land which I have prepared for you; yea, a land which is choice above all other lands.
And inasmuch as thy brethren shall rebel against thee, they shall be acut off from the presence of the Lord.
And inasmuch as thou shalt keep my commandments, thou shalt be made a aruler and a teacher over thy brethren.
For behold, in that day that they shall arebel against me, I will bcurse them even with a sore curse, and they shall have no power over thy seed except they shall crebel against me also.
And if it so be that they rebel against me, they shall be a ascourge unto thy seed, to bstir them up in the ways of remembrance.
 aHearken and hear this, O house of Jacob, who are called by the name of Israel, and are come forth out of the waters of Judah, or out of the waters of bbaptism, who cswear by the name of the Lord, and make mention of the God of Israel, yet they swear dnot in truth nor in righteousness.
Nevertheless, they call themselves of the aholy city, but they do bnot stay themselves upon the God of Israel, who is the Lord of Hosts; yea, the Lord of Hosts is his name.
Behold, I have declared the aformer things from the beginning; and they went forth out of my mouth, and I showed them.
I did show them suddenly.
And I did it because I knew that thou art obstinate, and thy aneck is an iron sinew, and thy brow brass; And I have even from the beginning declared to thee; before it came to pass I ashowed them thee; and I showed them for fear lest thou shouldst say—Mine idol hath done them, and my graven image, and my molten image hath commanded them.
Thou hast seen and heard all this; and will ye anot declare them?
And that I have showed thee new things from this time, even hidden things, and thou didst not know them.
They are created now, and not from the beginning, even before the day when thou heardest them not they were declared unto thee, lest thou shouldst say—Behold I knew them.
Yea, and thou heardest not; yea, thou knewest not; yea, from that time thine ear was not opened; for I knew that thou wouldst deal very treacherously, and wast called a atransgressor from the womb.
Nevertheless, for my aname’s sake will I defer mine anger, and for my praise will I refrain from thee, that I cut thee not off.
For, behold, I have refined thee, I have chosen thee in the furnace of aaffliction.
For mine own sake, yea, for mine own sake will I do this, for I will not suffer my aname to be polluted, and I will bnot give my glory unto another.
Hearken unto me, O Jacob, and Israel my called, for I am he; I am the afirst, and I am also the last.
Mine hand hath also alaid the foundation of the earth, and my right hand hath spanned the heavens.
I bcall unto them and they stand up together.
All ye, assemble yourselves, and hear; who among them hath declared these things unto them?
The Lord hath loved him; yea, and he will afulfil his word which he hath declared by them; and he will do his pleasure on bBabylon, and his arm shall come upon the Chaldeans.
Also, saith the Lord; I the Lord, yea, I have spoken; yea, I have called ahim to declare, I have brought him, and he shall make his way prosperous.
Come ye near unto me; I have not spoken in asecret; from the beginning, from the time that it was declared have I spoken; and the Lord God, and his bSpirit, hath sent me.
And thus saith the Lord, thy aRedeemer, the Holy One of Israel; I have sent him, the Lord thy God who teacheth thee to profit, who bleadeth thee by the way thou shouldst go, hath done it.
O that thou hadst hearkened to my acommandments—then had thy bpeace been as a river, and thy righteousness as the waves of the sea.
Thy aseed also had been as the sand; the offspring of thy bowels like the gravel thereof; his name should not have been cut off nor destroyed from before me.
aGo ye forth of Babylon, flee ye from the bChaldeans, with a voice of singing declare ye, tell this, utter to the end of the earth; say ye: The Lord hath redeemed his cservant Jacob.
And they athirsted not; he led them through the deserts; he caused the waters to flow out of the brock for them; he clave the rock also and the waters gushed out.
And notwithstanding he hath done all this, and greater also, there is no apeace, saith the Lord, unto the wicked.
 aAnd again: Hearken, O ye house of Israel, all ye that are broken off and are driven out because of the wickedness of the pastors of my people; yea, all ye that are broken off, that are scattered abroad, who are of my people, O house of Israel.
Listen, O bisles, unto me, and hearken ye people from cfar; the Lord hath called me from the womb; from the bowels of my mother hath he made mention of my name.
And he hath made my mouth like a sharp sword; in the shadow of his hand hath he hid me, and made me a polished shaft; in his quiver hath he hid me; And said unto me: Thou art my aservant, O Israel, in whom I will be glorified.
Then I said, I have labored in avain, I have spent my strength for naught and in vain; surely my judgment is with the Lord, and my work with my God.
And now, saith the Lord—that aformed me from the womb that I should be his servant, to bring Jacob again to him—though Israel be not gathered, yet shall I be glorious in the eyes of the Lord, and my God shall be my bstrength.
And he said: It is a light thing that thou shouldst be my servant to raise up the atribes of Jacob, and to restore the preserved of Israel.
I will also give thee for a blight to the cGentiles, that thou mayest be my salvation unto the ends of the earth.
Thus saith the Lord, the Redeemer of Israel, his Holy One, to him whom man despiseth, to him whom the nations abhorreth, to servant of rulers: Kings shall see and arise, princes also shall worship, because of the Lord that is faithful.
Thus saith the Lord: In an acceptable time have I heard thee, O isles of the sea, and in a day of salvation have I helped thee; and I will preserve thee, and give thee amy servant for a covenant of the people, to establish the earth, to cause to inherit the desolate heritages; That thou mayest say to the aprisoners: Go forth; to them that sit in bdarkness: Show yourselves.
They shall feed in the ways, and their cpastures shall be in all high places.
They shall not hunger nor thirst, neither shall the heat nor the sun smite them; for he that hath mercy on them shall lead them, even by the springs of water shall he guide them.
And I will make all my mountains a way, and my ahighways shall be exalted.
And then, O house of Israel, behold, athese shall come from far; and lo, these from the north and from the west; and these from the land of Sinim.
aSing, O heavens; and be joyful, O earth; for the feet of those who are in the east shall be established; and bbreak forth into singing, O mountains; for they shall be smitten no more; for the Lord hath comforted his people, and will have mercy upon his cafflicted.
But, behold, Zion hath said: The Lord hath forsaken me, and my Lord hath forgotten me—but he will show that he hath not.
For can a awoman forget her sucking child, that she should not have bcompassion on the son of her womb?
Yea, they may cforget, yet will I not forget thee, O house of Israel.
Behold, I have graven thee upon the apalms of my hands; thy walls are continually before me.
Thy children shall make haste against thy destroyers; and they that made thee awaste shall go forth of thee.
Lift up thine eyes round about and behold; all these agather themselves together, and they shall come to thee.
And as I live, saith the Lord, thou shalt surely clothe thee with them all, as with an ornament, and bind them on even as a bride.
For thy waste and thy desolate places, and the land of thy destruction, shall even now be too narrow by reason of the inhabitants; and they that swallowed thee up shall be far away.
The children whom thou shalt have, after thou hast lost the first, shall aagain in thine ears say: The place is too strait for me; give place to me that I may dwell.
Then shalt thou say in thine heart: Who hath begotten me these, seeing I have lost my children, and am adesolate, a captive, and removing to and fro?
And who hath brought up these?
Behold, I was left alone; these, where have they been?
Thus saith the Lord God: Behold, I will lift up mine hand to the aGentiles, and set up my bstandard to the people; and they shall bring thy sons in their carms, and thy daughters shall be carried upon their shoulders.
And akings shall be thy bnursing fathers, and their queens thy nursing mothers; they shall bow down to thee with their face towards the earth, and lick up the dust of thy feet; and thou shalt know that I am the Lord; for they shall not be ashamed that cwait for me.
For shall the prey be taken from the mighty, or the alawful captives delivered?
But thus saith the Lord, even the captives of the mighty shall be taken away, and the prey of the terrible shall be delivered; for I will contend with him that contendeth with thee, and I will save thy children.
And I will afeed them that oppress thee with their own flesh; they shall be drunken with their own blood as with sweet wine; and all flesh shall bknow that I, the Lord, am thy cSavior and thy Redeemer, the dMighty One of Jacob.
 And now it came to pass that after I, Nephi, had read these things which were engraven upon the aplates of brass, my brethren came unto me and said unto me: What bmeaneth these things which ye have read?
Behold, are they to be understood according to things which are cspiritual, which shall come to pass according to the spirit and not the flesh?
And I, Nephi, said unto them: Behold they were amanifest unto the prophet by the voice of the bSpirit; for by the Spirit are all things made known unto the cprophets, which shall come upon the children of men according to the flesh.
Wherefore, the things of which I have read are things pertaining to things both atemporal and spiritual; for it appears that the house of Israel, sooner or later, will be bscattered upon all the face of the earth, and also camong all nations.
And behold, there are many who are already lost from the knowledge of those who are at Jerusalem.
Yea, the more part of all the atribes have been bled away; and they are cscattered to and fro upon the disles of the sea; and whither they are none of us knoweth, save that we know that they have been led away.
And since they have been led away, these things have been prophesied concerning them, and also concerning all those who shall hereafter be scattered and be confounded, because of the Holy One of Israel; for against him will they aharden their hearts; wherefore, they shall be scattered among all nations and shall be bhated of all men.
Nevertheless, after they shall be anursed by the bGentiles, and the Lord has lifted up his hand upon the Gentiles and set them up for a standard, and their cchildren have been carried in their arms, and their daughters have been carried upon their shoulders, behold these things of which are spoken are temporal; for thus are the covenants of the Lord with our fathers; and it meaneth us in the days to come, and also all our brethren who are of the house of Israel.
And it meaneth that the time cometh that after all the house of Israel have been scattered and confounded, that the Lord God will raise up a mighty nation among the aGentiles, yea, even upon the face of this land; and by them shall our seed be bscattered.
And after our seed is scattered the Lord God will proceed to do a amarvelous work among the bGentiles, which shall be of great cworth unto our seed; wherefore, it is likened unto their being nourished by the dGentiles and being carried in their arms and upon their shoulders.
And it shall also be of aworth unto the Gentiles; and not only unto the Gentiles but bunto all the chouse of Israel, unto the making known of the dcovenants of the Father of heaven unto Abraham, saying: In thy eseed shall all the kindreds of the earth be fblessed.
And I would, my brethren, that ye should know that all the kindreds of the earth cannot be blessed unless he shall make abare his arm in the eyes of the nations.
Wherefore, the Lord God will proceed to make bare his arm in the eyes of all the anations, in bringing about his covenants and his gospel unto those who are of the house of Israel.
Wherefore, he will abring them again out of bcaptivity, and they shall be cgathered together to the lands of their dinheritance; and they shall be ebrought out of obscurity and out of fdarkness; and they shall know that the gLord is their hSavior and their Redeemer, the iMighty One of Israel.
And the blood of that great and aabominable church, which is the whore of all the earth, shall turn upon their own heads; for they shall bwar among themselves, and the sword of their cown hands shall fall upon their own heads, and they shall be drunken with their own blood.
And every anation which shall war against thee, O house of Israel, shall be turned one against another, and they shall bfall into the pit which they digged to ensnare the people of the Lord.
And all that cfight against Zion shall be destroyed, and that great whore, who hath perverted the right ways of the Lord, yea, that great and abominable church, shall tumble to the ddust and great shall be the fall of it.
For behold, saith the prophet, the time cometh speedily that Satan shall have no more power over the hearts of the children of men; for the day soon cometh that all the proud and they who do wickedly shall be as astubble; and the day cometh that they must be bburned.
For the time soon cometh that the fulness of the awrath of God shall be poured out upon all the children of men; for he will not suffer that the wicked shall destroy the righteous.
Wherefore, he will apreserve the brighteous by his power, even if it so be that the fulness of his wrath must come, and the righteous be preserved, even unto the destruction of their enemies by fire.
Wherefore, the righteous need not fear; for thus saith the prophet, they shall be saved, even if it so be as by fire.
Behold, my brethren, I say unto you, that these things must shortly come; yea, even blood, and fire, and vapor of smoke must come; and it must needs be upon the face of this earth; and it cometh unto men according to the flesh if it so be that they will harden their hearts against the Holy One of Israel.
For behold, the righteous shall not perish; for the time surely must come that all they who fight against Zion shall be cut off.
And the Lord will surely aprepare a way for his people, unto the fulfilling of the words of Moses, which he spake, saying: A bprophet shall the Lord your God raise up unto you, like unto me; him shall ye hear in all things whatsoever he shall say unto you.
And it shall come to pass that all those who will not hear that prophet shall be ccut off from among the people.
And now I, Nephi, declare unto you, that this aprophet of whom Moses spake was the Holy One of Israel; wherefore, he shall execute bjudgment in righteousness.
And the righteous need not fear, for they are those who shall not be confounded.
But it is the kingdom of the devil, which shall be built up among the children of men, which kingdom is established among them which are in the flesh— For the time speedily shall come that all achurches which are built up to get gain, and all those who are built up to get power over the flesh, and those who are built up to become bpopular in the eyes of the world, and those who seek the lusts of the flesh and the things of the world, and to do all manner of iniquity; yea, in fine, all those who belong to the kingdom of the cdevil are they who need fear, and tremble, and dquake; they are those who must be brought low in the dust; they are those who must be econsumed as stubble; and this is according to the words of the prophet.
And the time cometh speedily that the righteous must be led up as acalves of the stall, and the Holy One of Israel must reign in dominion, and might, and power, and great bglory.
And he agathereth his children from the four quarters of the earth; and he numbereth his bsheep, and they know him; and there shall be one fold and one shepherd; and he shall feed his sheep, and in him they shall find cpasture.
And because of the arighteousness of his people, bSatan has no power; wherefore, he cannot be loosed for the space of cmany years; for he hath no power over the hearts of the people, for they dwell in righteousness, and the Holy One of Israel dreigneth.
And now behold, I, Nephi, say unto you that all these athings must come according to the flesh.
But, behold, all nations, kindreds, tongues, and people shall dwell safely in the Holy One of Israel if it so be that they will arepent.
And now I, Nephi, make an end; for I durst not speak further as yet concerning these things.
Wherefore, my brethren, I would that ye should consider that the things which have been written upon the aplates of brass are true; and they testify that a man must be obedient to the commandments of God.
Wherefore, ye need not suppose that I and my father are the only ones that have testified, and also taught them.
Wherefore, if ye shall be obedient to the acommandments, and endure to the end, ye shall be saved at the last day.
And thus it is.
Amen.
 And it came to pass that I, Nephi, returned from aspeaking with the Lord, to the tent of my father.
And it came to pass that he spake unto me, saying: Behold I have dreamed a adream, in the which the Lord hath commanded me that thou and thy brethren shall breturn to Jerusalem.
For behold, Laban hath the record of the Jews and also a agenealogy of my forefathers, and they are bengraven upon plates of brass.
Wherefore, the Lord hath commanded me that thou and thy brothers should go unto the house of Laban, and seek the records, and bring them down hither into the wilderness.
And now, behold thy brothers murmur, saying it is a hard thing which I have required of them; but behold I have not required it of them, but it is a commandment of the Lord.
Therefore go, my son, and thou shalt be favored of the Lord, because thou hast anot bmurmured.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, said unto my father: I awill go and do the things which the Lord hath commanded, for I know that the Lord giveth no bcommandments unto the children of men, save he shall cprepare a way for them that they may accomplish the thing which he commandeth them.
And it came to pass that when my father had heard these words he was exceedingly glad, for he knew that I had been blessed of the Lord.
And I, Nephi, and my brethren took our journey in the wilderness, with our tents, to go up to the land of Jerusalem.
And it came to pass that when we had gone up to the land of Jerusalem, I and my brethren did consult one with another.
And we acast lots—who of us should go in unto the house of Laban.
And it came to pass that the lot fell upon Laman; and Laman went in unto the house of Laban, and he talked with him as he sat in his house.
And he desired of Laban the records which were engraven upon the plates of brass, which contained the agenealogy of my father.
And behold, it came to pass that Laban was angry, and thrust him out from his presence; and he would not that he should have the records.
Wherefore, he said unto him: Behold thou art a robber, and I will slay thee.
But Laman fled out of his presence, and told the things which Laban had done, unto us.
And we began to be exceedingly sorrowful, and my brethren were about to return unto my father in the wilderness.
But behold I said unto them that: aAs the Lord liveth, and as we live, we will not go down unto our father in the wilderness until we have baccomplished the thing which the Lord hath commanded us.
Wherefore, let us be faithful in keeping the commandments of the Lord; therefore let us go down to the land of our father’s ainheritance, for behold he left gold and silver, and all manner of riches.
And all this he hath done because of the bcommandments of the Lord.
For he knew that Jerusalem must be adestroyed, because of the wickedness of the people.
For behold, they have arejected the words of the prophets.
Wherefore, if my father should dwell in the land after he hath been bcommanded to flee out of the land, behold, he would also perish.
Wherefore, it must needs be that he flee out of the land.
And behold, it is wisdom in God that we should obtain these arecords, that we may preserve unto our children the language of our fathers; And also that we may apreserve unto them the words which have been spoken by the mouth of all the holy bprophets, which have been delivered unto them by the Spirit and power of God, since the world began, even down unto this present time.
And it came to pass that after this manner of language did I apersuade my brethren, that they might be faithful in keeping the commandments of God.
And it came to pass that we went down to the land of our inheritance, and we did gather together our agold, and our silver, and our precious things.
And after we had gathered these things together, we went up again unto the house of Laban.
And it came to pass that we went in unto Laban, and desired him that he would give unto us the records which were engraven upon the aplates of brass, for which we would give unto him our gold, and our silver, and all our precious things.
And it came to pass that when Laban saw our property, and that it was exceedingly great, he did alust after it, insomuch that he thrust us out, and sent his servants to slay us, that he might obtain our property.
And ait came to pass that we did flee before the servants of Laban, and we were obliged to leave behind our property, and it fell into the hands of Laban.
And it came to pass that we fled into the wilderness, and the servants of Laban did not overtake us, and we ahid ourselves in the cavity of a rock.
And it came to pass that Laman was angry with me, and also with my father; and also was Lemuel, for he hearkened unto the words of Laman.
Wherefore Laman and Lemuel did speak many ahard words unto us, their younger brothers, and they did smite us even with a rod.
And it came to pass as they smote us with a rod, behold, an aangel of the Lord came and stood before them, and he spake unto them, saying: Why do ye smite your younger brother with a rod?
Know ye not that the Lord hath chosen him to be a bruler over you, and this because of your iniquities?
Behold ye shall go up to Jerusalem again, and the Lord will cdeliver Laban into your hands.
And after the aangel had spoken unto us, he departed.
And after the angel had departed, Laman and Lemuel again began to amurmur, saying: How is it possible that the Lord will deliver Laban into our hands?
Behold, he is a mighty man, and he can command fifty, yea, even he can slay fifty; then why not us?
 And it came to pass that I spake unto my brethren, saying: Let us go up again unto Jerusalem, and let us be afaithful in keeping the commandments of the Lord; for behold he is mightier than all the earth, then why not bmightier than Laban and his fifty, yea, or even than his tens of thousands?
Therefore let us go up; let us be astrong like unto Moses; for he truly spake unto the waters of the bRed Sea and they divided hither and thither, and our fathers came through, out of captivity, on dry ground, and the armies of Pharaoh did follow and were drowned in the waters of the Red Sea.
Now behold ye know that this is true; and ye also know that an aangel hath spoken unto you; wherefore can ye bdoubt?
Let us go up; the Lord is able to cdeliver us, even as our fathers, and to destroy Laban, even as the Egyptians.
Now when I had spoken these words, they were yet wroth, and did still continue to murmur; nevertheless they did follow me up until we came without the walls of Jerusalem.
And it was by night; and I caused that they should hide themselves without the walls.
And after they had hid themselves, I, Nephi, crept into the city and went forth towards the house of Laban.
And I was aled by the Spirit, not bknowing beforehand the things which I should do.
Nevertheless I went forth, and as I came near unto the house of Laban I beheld a man, and he had fallen to the earth before me, for he was adrunken with wine.
And when I came to him I found that it was Laban.
And I beheld his asword, and I drew it forth from the sheath thereof; and the hilt thereof was of pure gold, and the workmanship thereof was exceedingly fine, and I saw that the blade thereof was of the most precious steel.
And it came to pass that I was aconstrained by the Spirit that I should kill Laban; but I said in my heart: Never at any time have I shed the blood of man.
And I shrunk and would that I might not slay him.
And the Spirit said unto me again: Behold the aLord hath bdelivered him into thy hands.
Yea, and I also knew that he had sought to take away mine own life; yea, and he would not hearken unto the commandments of the Lord; and he also had ctaken away our property.
And it came to pass that the Spirit said unto me again: Slay him, for the Lord hath delivered him into thy hands; Behold the Lord aslayeth the bwicked to bring forth his righteous purposes.
It is cbetter that one man should perish than that a nation should dwindle and perish in dunbelief.
And now, when I, Nephi, had heard these words, I remembered the words of the Lord which he spake unto me in the wilderness, saying that: aInasmuch as thy seed shall keep my bcommandments, they shall cprosper in the dland of promise.
Yea, and I also thought that they could not keep the commandments of the Lord according to the alaw of Moses, save they should have the law.
And I also knew that the alaw was engraven upon the plates of brass.
And again, I knew that the Lord had delivered Laban into my hands for this cause—that I might obtain the records according to his commandments.
Therefore I did obey the voice of the Spirit, and took Laban by the hair of the head, and I smote off his head with his own asword.
And after I had smitten off his head with his own sword, I took the garments of Laban and put them upon mine own body; yea, even every whit; and I did gird on his armor about my loins.
And after I had done this, I went forth unto the treasury of Laban.
And as I went forth towards the treasury of Laban, behold, I saw the aservant of Laban who had the keys of the treasury.
And I commanded him in the voice of Laban, that he should go with me into the treasury.
And he supposed me to be his master, Laban, for he beheld the garments and also the sword girded about my loins.
And he spake unto me concerning the aelders of the Jews, he knowing that his master, Laban, had been out by night among them.
And I spake unto him as if it had been Laban.
And I also spake unto him that I should carry the engravings, which were upon the aplates of brass, to my elder brethren, who were without the walls.
And I also bade him that he should follow me.
And he, supposing that I spake of the abrethren of the bchurch, and that I was truly that Laban whom I had slain, wherefore he did follow me.
And he spake unto me many times concerning the elders of the Jews, as I went forth unto my brethren, who were without the walls.
And it came to pass that when Laman saw me he was exceedingly frightened, and also Lemuel and Sam.
And they fled from before my presence; for they supposed it was Laban, and that he had slain me and had sought to take away their lives also.
And it came to pass that I called after them, and they did hear me; wherefore they did cease to flee from my presence.
And it came to pass that when the servant of Laban beheld my brethren he began to tremble, and was about to flee from before me and return to the city of Jerusalem.
And now I, Nephi, being a man large in stature, and also having received much astrength of the Lord, therefore I did seize upon the servant of Laban, and held him, that he should not flee.
And it came to pass that I spake with him, that if he would hearken unto my words, as the Lord liveth, and as I live, even so that if he would hearken unto our words, we would spare his life.
And I spake unto him, even with an aoath, that he need not fear; that he should be a bfree man like unto us if he would go down in the wilderness with us.
And I also spake unto him, saying: Surely the Lord hath acommanded us to do this thing; and shall we not be diligent in keeping the commandments of the Lord?
Therefore, if thou wilt go down into the wilderness to my father thou shalt have place with us.
And it came to pass that aZoram did take courage at the words which I spake.
Now Zoram was the name of the servant; and he promised that he would go down into the wilderness unto our father.
Yea, and he also made an oath unto us that he would tarry with us from that time forth.
Now we were desirous that he should tarry with us for this cause, that the Jews might not know concerning our flight into the wilderness, lest they should pursue us and destroy us.
And it came to pass that when Zoram had made an aoath unto us, our bfears did cease concerning him.
And it came to pass that we took the plates of brass and the servant of Laban, and departed into the wilderness, and journeyed unto the atent of our father.
 And it came to pass that after we had come down into the wilderness unto our father, behold, he was filled with joy, and also my mother, Sariah, was exceedingly glad, for she truly had mourned because of us.
For she had supposed that we had perished in the wilderness; and she also had acomplained against my father, telling him that he was a bvisionary man; saying: Behold thou hast led us forth from the land of our inheritance, and my sons are no more, and we perish in the wilderness.
And after this manner of language had my mother complained against my father.
And it had come to pass that my father spake unto her, saying: I know that I am a avisionary man; for if I had not seen the things of God in a bvision I should not have known the goodness of God, but had tarried at Jerusalem, and had perished with my brethren.
But behold, I have aobtained a bland of promise, in the which things I do rejoice; yea, and I cknow that the Lord will deliver my sons out of the hands of Laban, and bring them down again unto us in the wilderness.
And after this manner of language did my father, Lehi, acomfort my mother, Sariah, concerning us, while we journeyed in the wilderness up to the land of Jerusalem, to obtain the record of the Jews.
And when we had returned to the tent of my father, behold their joy was full, and my mother was comforted.
And she spake, saying: Now I know of a surety that the Lord hath acommanded my husband to bflee into the wilderness; yea, and I also know of a surety that the Lord hath protected my sons, and delivered them out of the hands of Laban, and given them power whereby they could caccomplish the thing which the Lord hath commanded them.
And after this manner of language did she speak.
And it came to pass that they did rejoice exceedingly, and did offer asacrifice and burnt offerings unto the Lord; and they gave bthanks unto the God of Israel.
And after they had given thanks unto the God of Israel, my father, Lehi, took the records which were engraven upon the aplates of brass, and he did search them from the beginning.
And he beheld that they did contain the five abooks of Moses, which gave an account of the creation of the world, and also of Adam and Eve, who were our first parents; And also a arecord of the Jews from the beginning, even down to the commencement of the reign of Zedekiah, king of Judah; And also the prophecies of the holy prophets, from the beginning, even down to the commencement of the reign of aZedekiah; and also many prophecies which have been spoken by the mouth of bJeremiah.
And it came to pass that my father, Lehi, also found upon the aplates of brass a bgenealogy of his cfathers; wherefore he knew that he was a descendant of dJoseph; yea, even that Joseph who was the son of eJacob, who was fsold into Egypt, and who was gpreserved by the hand of the Lord, that he might preserve his father, Jacob, and all his household from perishing with famine.
And they were also aled out of captivity and out of the land of Egypt, by that same God who had preserved them.
And thus my father, Lehi, did discover the genealogy of his fathers.
And Laban also was a descendant of aJoseph, wherefore he and his fathers had kept the brecords.
And now when my father saw all these things, he was filled with the Spirit, and began to prophesy concerning his seed— That these aplates of brass should go forth unto all bnations, kindreds, tongues, and people who were of his seed.
Wherefore, he said that these plates of brass should anever perish; neither should they be dimmed any more by time.
And he prophesied many things concerning his seed.
And it came to pass that thus far I and my father had kept the commandments wherewith the Lord had commanded us.
And we had obtained the records which the Lord had commanded us, and searched them and found that they were desirable; yea, even of great aworth unto us, insomuch that we could bpreserve the commandments of the Lord unto our children.
Wherefore, it was wisdom in the Lord that we should carry them with us, as we journeyed in the wilderness towards the land of promise.
 And now I, Nephi, do not give the genealogy of my fathers in athis part of my record; neither at any time shall I give it after upon these bplates which I am cwriting; for it is given in the record which has been kept by my dfather; wherefore, I do not write it in this work.
For it sufficeth me to say that we are descendants of aJoseph.
And it mattereth not to me that I am particular to give a full account of all the things of my father, for they cannot be written upon athese plates, for I desire the room that I may write of the things of God.
For the fulness of mine intent is that I may apersuade men to bcome unto the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, and be saved.
Wherefore, the things which are apleasing unto the world I do not write, but the things which are pleasing unto God and unto those who are not of the world.
Wherefore, I shall give commandment unto my seed, that they shall not occupy these plates with things which are not of worth unto the children of men.
 And now I would that ye might know, that after my father, Lehi, had made an end of aprophesying concerning his seed, it came to pass that the Lord spake unto him again, saying that it was not meet for him, Lehi, that he should take his family into the wilderness alone; but that his sons should take bdaughters to cwife, that they might raise up dseed unto the Lord in the land of promise.
And it came to pass that the Lord acommanded him that I, Nephi, and my brethren, should again return unto the land of Jerusalem, and bring down Ishmael and his family into the wilderness.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, did aagain, with my brethren, go forth into the wilderness to go up to Jerusalem.
And it came to pass that we went up unto the house of Ishmael, and we did gain favor in the sight of Ishmael, insomuch that we did speak unto him the words of the Lord.
And it came to pass that the aLord did soften the heart of Ishmael, and also his household, insomuch that they took their journey with us down into the wilderness to the tent of our father.
And it came to pass that as we journeyed in the wilderness, behold Laman and Lemuel, and two of the adaughters of Ishmael, and the two bsons of Ishmael and their families, did crebel against us; yea, against me, Nephi, and Sam, and their father, Ishmael, and his wife, and his three other daughters.
And it came to pass in the which rebellion, they were desirous to return unto the land of Jerusalem.
And now I, Nephi, being agrieved for the hardness of their hearts, therefore I spake unto them, saying, yea, even unto Laman and unto Lemuel: Behold ye are mine elder brethren, and how is it that ye are so hard in your hearts, and so blind in your minds, that ye have need that I, your byounger brother, should speak unto you, yea, and set an cexample for you?
How is it that ye have not hearkened unto the word of the Lord?
How is it that ye have aforgotten that ye have seen an angel of the Lord?
Yea, and how is it that ye have forgotten what great things the Lord hath done for us, in adelivering us out of the hands of Laban, and also that we should obtain the record?
Yea, and how is it that ye have forgotten that the Lord is able to do all athings according to his will, for the children of men, if it so be that they exercise bfaith in him?
Wherefore, let us be faithful to him.
And if it so be that we are faithful to him, we shall obtain the aland of promise; and ye shall know at some future period that the word of the Lord shall be fulfilled concerning the bdestruction of cJerusalem; for all things which the Lord hath spoken concerning the destruction of Jerusalem must be fulfilled.
For behold, the aSpirit of the Lord bceaseth soon to strive with them; for behold, they have crejected the prophets, and dJeremiah have they cast into prison.
And they have sought to take away the elife of my father, insomuch that they have driven him out of the land.
Now behold, I say unto you that if ye will return unto Jerusalem ye shall also perish with them.
And now, if ye have choice, go up to the land, and remember the words which I speak unto you, that if ye go ye will also perish; for thus the Spirit of the Lord constraineth me that I should speak.
And it came to pass that when I, Nephi, had spoken these words unto my brethren, they were angry with me.
And it came to pass that they did lay their hands upon me, for behold, they were exceedingly wroth, and they did abind me with cords, for they sought to take away my life, that they might leave me in the wilderness to be devoured by wild beasts.
But it came to pass that I prayed unto the Lord, saying: O Lord, according to my faith which is in thee, wilt thou deliver me from the hands of my brethren; yea, even give me astrength that I may bburst these bands with which I am bound.
And it came to pass that when I had said these words, behold, the bands were loosed from off my hands and feet, and I stood before my brethren, and I spake unto them again.
And it came to pass that they were angry with me again, and sought to lay hands upon me; but behold, one of the adaughters of Ishmael, yea, and also her mother, and one of the sons of Ishmael, did plead with my brethren, insomuch that they did soften their hearts; and they did cease striving to take away my life.
And it came to pass that they were sorrowful, because of their wickedness, insomuch that they did bow down before me, and did plead with me that I would aforgive them of the thing that they had done against me.
And it came to pass that I did frankly aforgive them all that they had done, and I did exhort them that they would pray unto the Lord their God for bforgiveness.
And it came to pass that they did so.
And after they had done praying unto the Lord we did again travel on our journey towards the tent of our father.
And it came to pass that we did come down unto the tent of our father.
And after I and my brethren and all the house of Ishmael had come down unto the tent of my father, they did give athanks unto the Lord their God; and they did offer bsacrifice and burnt offerings unto him.
 And it came to pass that we had gathered together all manner of aseeds of every kind, both of grain of every kind, and also of the seeds of fruit of every kind.
And it came to pass that while my father tarried in the wilderness he spake unto us, saying: Behold, I have adreamed a dream; or, in other words, I have bseen a cvision.
And behold, because of the thing which I have seen, I have reason to rejoice in the Lord because of aNephi and also of Sam; for I have reason to suppose that they, and also many of their seed, will be saved.
But behold, aLaman and Lemuel, I fear exceedingly because of you; for behold, methought I saw in my dream, a dark and dreary wilderness.
And it came to pass that I saw a aman, and he was dressed in a white brobe; and he came and stood before me.
And it came to pass that he spake unto me, and bade me follow him.
And it came to pass that as I followed him I beheld myself that I was in a dark and dreary waste.
And after I had traveled for the space of many hours in darkness, I began to pray unto the Lord that he would have amercy on me, according to the multitude of his tender mercies.
And it came to pass after I had prayed unto the Lord I beheld a large and spacious afield.
And it came to pass that I beheld a atree, whose bfruit was desirable to make one chappy.
And it came to pass that I did go forth and partake of the afruit thereof; and I beheld that it was most sweet, above all that I ever before tasted.
Yea, and I beheld that the fruit thereof was white, to exceed all the bwhiteness that I had ever seen.
And as I partook of the fruit thereof it filled my soul with exceedingly great ajoy; wherefore, I began to be bdesirous that my family should partake of it also; for I knew that it was cdesirable above all other fruit.
And as I cast my eyes round about, that perhaps I might discover my family also, I beheld a ariver of water; and it ran along, and it was near the tree of which I was partaking the fruit.
And I looked to behold from whence it came; and I saw the head thereof a little way off; and at the head thereof I beheld your mother Sariah, and Sam, and aNephi; and they stood as if they knew not whither they should go.
And it came to pass that I beckoned unto them; and I also did say unto them with a loud voice that they should come unto me, and partake of the fruit, which was desirable above all other fruit.
And it came to pass that they did come unto me and partake of the fruit also.
And it came to pass that I was desirous that Laman and Lemuel should come and partake of the fruit also; wherefore, I cast mine eyes towards the head of the river, that perhaps I might see them.
And it came to pass that I saw them, but they would anot come unto me and partake of the fruit.
And I beheld a arod of iron, and it extended along the bank of the river, and led to the tree by which I stood.
And I also beheld a astrait and narrow path, which came along by the rod of iron, even to the tree by which I stood; and it also led by the head of the fountain, unto a large and spacious field, as if it had been a bworld.
And I saw numberless concourses of people, many of whom were apressing forward, that they might obtain the bpath which led unto the tree by which I stood.
And it came to pass that they did come forth, and commence in the path which led to the tree.
And it came to pass that there arose a amist of darkness; yea, even an exceedingly great mist of darkness, insomuch that they who had commenced in the path did lose their way, that they wandered off and were blost.
And it came to pass that I beheld others pressing forward, and they came forth and caught hold of the end of the rod of iron; and they did press forward through the mist of darkness, aclinging to the rod of iron, even until they did come forth and partake of the bfruit of the tree.
And after they had partaken of the fruit of the tree they did cast their eyes about as if they were aashamed.
And I also cast my eyes round about, and beheld, on the aother side of the river of water, a great and bspacious building; and it stood as it were in the cair, high above the earth.
And it was filled with people, both old and young, both male and female; and their manner of dress was exceedingly fine; and they were in the aattitude of bmocking and pointing their fingers towards those who had come at and were partaking of the fruit.
And after they had atasted of the fruit they were bashamed, because of those that were cscoffing at them; and they dfell away into forbidden paths and were lost.
And now I, Nephi, do not speak aall the words of my father.
But, to be short in writing, behold, he saw other multitudes pressing forward; and they came and caught hold of the end of the arod of iron; and they did press their way forward, continually holding fast to the rod of iron, until they came forth and fell down and partook of the fruit of the tree.
And he also saw other amultitudes feeling their way towards that great and spacious building.
And it came to pass that many were drowned in the adepths of the bfountain; and many were lost from his view, wandering in strange roads.
And great was the multitude that did enter into that strange building.
And after they did enter into that building they did point the finger of ascorn at me and those that were partaking of the fruit also; but we heeded them not.
These are the words of my father: For as many as aheeded them, had fallen away.
And aLaman and Lemuel partook not of the fruit, said my father.
And it came to pass after my father had spoken all the words of his dream or vision, which were many, he said unto us, because of these things which he saw in a vision, he exceedingly feared for Laman and Lemuel; yea, he feared lest they should be cast off from the presence of the Lord.
And he did aexhort them then with all the feeling of a tender parent, that they would hearken to his words, that perhaps the Lord would be merciful to them, and not cast them off; yea, my father did preach unto them.
And after he had preached unto them, and also prophesied unto them of many things, he bade them to keep the commandments of the Lord; and he did cease speaking unto them.
 And all these things did my father see, and hear, and speak, as he dwelt in a tent, in the avalley of Lemuel, and also a great many more things, which cannot be written upon these plates.
And now, as I have spoken concerning these plates, behold they are not the plates upon which I make a full account of the history of my people; for the aplates upon which I make a full account of my people I have given the name of Nephi; wherefore, they are called the plates of Nephi, after mine own name; and these plates also are called the plates of Nephi.
Nevertheless, I have received a commandment of the Lord that I should make these plates, for the special apurpose that there should be an account engraven of the bministry of my people.
Upon the other plates should be engraven an account of the reign of the kings, and the wars and contentions of my people; wherefore these plates are for the more part of the ministry; and the aother plates are for the more part of the reign of the kings and the wars and contentions of my people.
Wherefore, the Lord hath commanded me to make these plates for a awise purpose in him, which purpose I know not.
But the Lord aknoweth all things from the beginning; wherefore, he prepareth a way to accomplish all his works among the children of men; for behold, he hath all bpower unto the fulfilling of all his words.
And thus it is.
Amen.
 And now it came to pass that after I, Nephi, had made an end of teaching my brethren, our afather, Lehi, also spake many things unto them, and rehearsed unto them, how great things the Lord had done for them in bringing them out of the land of Jerusalem.
And he spake unto them concerning their arebellions upon the waters, and the mercies of God in sparing their lives, that they were not swallowed up in the sea.
And he also spake unto them concerning the land of promise, which they had obtained—how amerciful the Lord had been in bwarning us that we should flee out of the land of Jerusalem.
For, behold, said he, I have aseen a bvision, in which I know that cJerusalem is ddestroyed; and had we remained in Jerusalem we should also have eperished.
But, said he, notwithstanding our afflictions, we have obtained a aland of promise, a land which is bchoice above all other lands; a land which the Lord God hath ccovenanted with me should be a land for the inheritance of my seed.
Yea, the Lord hath dcovenanted this land unto me, and to my children forever, and also all those who should be eled out of other countries by the hand of the Lord.
Wherefore, I, Lehi, prophesy according to the workings of the Spirit which is in me, that there shall anone come into this land save they shall be brought by the hand of the Lord.
Wherefore, this aland is consecrated unto him whom he shall bring.
And if it so be that they shall serve him according to the commandments which he hath given, it shall be a land of bliberty unto them; wherefore, they shall never be brought down into captivity; if so, it shall be because of iniquity; for if iniquity shall abound ccursed shall be the land for their sakes, but unto the righteous it shall be blessed forever.
And behold, it is wisdom that this land should be akept as yet from the knowledge of other bnations; for behold, many nations would overrun the land, that there would be no place for an inheritance.
Wherefore, I, Lehi, have obtained a apromise, that binasmuch as those whom the Lord God shall bring out of the land of Jerusalem shall keep his commandments, they shall cprosper upon the face of this land; and they shall be kept from all other nations, that they may possess this land unto themselves.
And if it so be that they shall dkeep his commandments they shall be blessed upon the face of this land, and there shall be none to molest them, nor to take away the land of their einheritance; and they shall dwell safely forever.
But behold, when the time cometh that they shall dwindle in aunbelief, after they have received so great blessings from the hand of the Lord—having a knowledge of the creation of the earth, and all men, knowing the great and marvelous works of the Lord from the creation of the world; having power given them to do all things by faith; having all the commandments from the beginning, and having been brought by his infinite goodness into this precious land of promise—behold, I say, if the day shall come that they will reject the Holy One of Israel, the true bMessiah, their Redeemer and their God, behold, the judgments of him that is cjust shall rest upon them.
Yea, he will bring aother nations unto them, and he will give unto them power, and he will take away from them the lands of their possessions, and he will cause them to be bscattered and smitten.
Yea, as one generation passeth to another there shall be abloodsheds, and great visitations among them; wherefore, my sons, I would that ye would remember; yea, I would that ye would hearken unto my words.
O that ye would awake; awake from a deep asleep, yea, even from the sleep of bhell, and shake off the awful cchains by which ye are bound, which are the chains which bind the children of men, that they are carried away captive down to the eternal dgulf of misery and woe.
Awake!
and arise from the dust, and hear the words of a trembling aparent, whose limbs ye must soon lay down in the cold and silent bgrave, from whence no traveler can creturn; a few more ddays and I go the eway of all the earth.
But behold, the Lord hath aredeemed my soul from hell; I have beheld his bglory, and I am encircled about eternally in the carms of his dlove.
And I desire that ye should remember to observe the astatutes and the judgments of the Lord; behold, this hath been the anxiety of my soul from the beginning.
My heart hath been weighed down with sorrow from time to time, for I have feared, lest for the hardness of your hearts the Lord your God should come out in the fulness of his awrath upon you, that ye be bcut off and destroyed forever; Or, that a acursing should come upon you for the space of bmany generations; and ye are visited by sword, and by famine, and are hated, and are led according to the will and captivity of the cdevil.
O my sons, that these things might not come upon you, but that ye might be a choice and a afavored people of the Lord.
But behold, his will be done; for his bways are righteousness forever.
And he hath said that: aInasmuch as ye shall keep my bcommandments ye shall cprosper in the land; but inasmuch as ye will not keep my commandments ye shall be cut off from my presence.
And now that my soul might have joy in you, and that my heart might leave this world with gladness because of you, that I might not be brought down with grief and sorrow to the grave, arise from the dust, my sons, and be amen, and be determined in bone mind and in one heart, united in all things, that ye may not come down into captivity; That ye may not be acursed with a sore cursing; and also, that ye may not incur the displeasure of a bjust God upon you, unto the destruction, yea, the eternal destruction of both soul and body.
Awake, my sons; put on the armor of arighteousness.
Shake off the bchains with which ye are bound, and come forth out of obscurity, and arise from the dust.
Rebel no more against your brother, whose views have been aglorious, and who hath kept the commandments from the time that we left Jerusalem; and who hath been an instrument in the hands of God, in bringing us forth into the land of promise; for were it not for him, we must have perished with bhunger in the wilderness; nevertheless, ye sought to ctake away his life; yea, and he hath suffered much sorrow because of you.
And I exceedingly fear and tremble because of you, lest he shall suffer again; for behold, ye have aaccused him that he sought power and bauthority over you; but I know that he hath not sought for power nor authority over you, but he hath sought the glory of God, and your own eternal welfare.
And ye have murmured because he hath been plain unto you.
Ye say that he hath used asharpness; ye say that he hath been angry with you; but behold, his bsharpness was the sharpness of the power of the word of God, which was in him; and that which ye call anger was the truth, according to that which is in God, which he could not restrain, manifesting boldly concerning your iniquities.
And it must needs be that the apower of God must be with him, even unto his commanding you that ye must obey.
But behold, it was not he, but it was the bSpirit of the Lord which was in him, which copened his mouth to utterance that he could not shut it.
And now my son, Laman, and also Lemuel and Sam, and also my sons who are the sons of Ishmael, behold, if ye will hearken unto the voice of Nephi ye shall not perish.
And if ye will hearken unto him I leave unto you a ablessing, yea, even my first blessing.
But if ye will not hearken unto him I take away my afirst blessing, yea, even my blessing, and it shall rest upon him.
And now, Zoram, I speak unto you: Behold, thou art the aservant of Laban; nevertheless, thou hast been brought out of the land of Jerusalem, and I know that thou art a true bfriend unto my son, Nephi, forever.
Wherefore, because thou hast been faithful thy seed shall be blessed awith his seed, that they dwell in prosperity long upon the face of this land; and nothing, save it shall be iniquity among them, shall harm or disturb their prosperity upon the face of this land forever.
Wherefore, if ye shall keep the commandments of the Lord, the Lord hath consecrated this land for the security of thy seed with the seed of my son.
 And now I, Jacob, speak unto you again, my beloved brethren, concerning this righteous abranch of which I have spoken.
For behold, the apromises which we have obtained are promises unto us according to the flesh; wherefore, as it has been shown unto me that many of our children shall perish in the flesh because of bunbelief, nevertheless, God will be merciful unto many; and our children shall be crestored, that they may come to that which will give them the true knowledge of their Redeemer.
Wherefore, as I said unto you, it must needs be expedient that Christ—for in the last night the aangel spake unto me that this should be his name—should bcome among the cJews, among those who are the more wicked part of the world; and they shall dcrucify him—for thus it behooveth our God, and there is none other nation on earth that would ecrucify their fGod.
For should the mighty amiracles be wrought among other nations they would repent, and know that he be their God.
But because of apriestcrafts and iniquities, they at Jerusalem will bstiffen their necks against him, that he be ccrucified.
Wherefore, because of their iniquities, destructions, famines, apestilences, and bloodshed shall come upon them; and they who shall not be destroyed shall be bscattered among all nations.
But behold, thus saith the aLord God: bWhen the day cometh that they shall believe in me, that I am Christ, then have I covenanted with their fathers that they shall be crestored in the flesh, upon the earth, unto the dlands of their inheritance.
And it shall come to pass that they shall be agathered in from their long dispersion, from the bisles of the sea, and from the four parts of the earth; and the nations of the Gentiles shall be great in the eyes of me, saith God, in ccarrying them forth to the lands of their inheritance.
aYea, the kings of the Gentiles shall be nursing fathers unto them, and their queens shall become nursing mothers; wherefore, the bpromises of the Lord are great unto the Gentiles, for he hath spoken it, and who can dispute?
But behold, this land, said God, shall be a land of thine inheritance, and the aGentiles shall be blessed upon the land.
And this land shall be a land of aliberty unto the Gentiles, and there shall be no bkings upon the land, who shall raise up unto the Gentiles.
And I will fortify this land aagainst all other nations.
And he that afighteth against Zion shall bperish, saith God.
For he that raiseth up a aking against me shall perish, for I, the Lord, the bking of heaven, will be their king, and I will be a clight unto them forever, that hear my words.
Wherefore, for this cause, that my acovenants may be fulfilled which I have made unto the children of men, that I will do unto them while they are in the flesh, I must needs destroy the bsecret works of cdarkness, and of murders, and of abominations.
Wherefore, he that afighteth against bZion, both Jew and Gentile, both bond and free, both male and female, cshall perish; for dthey are they who are the ewhore of all the earth; for fthey who are gnot for me are hagainst me, saith our God.
For I will afulfil my bpromises which I have made unto the children of men, that I will do unto them while they are in the flesh— Wherefore, my beloved brethren, thus saith our God: I will afflict thy seed by the hand of the Gentiles; nevertheless, I will asoften the hearts of the bGentiles, that they shall be like unto a father to them; wherefore, the Gentiles shall be cblessed and dnumbered among the house of Israel.
Wherefore, I will aconsecrate this land unto thy seed, and them who shall be numbered among thy seed, forever, for the land of their inheritance; for it is a choice land, saith God unto me, above all other lands, wherefore I will have all men that dwell thereon that they shall worship me, saith God.
And now, my beloved brethren, seeing that our merciful God has given us so great knowledge concerning these things, let us remember him, and lay aside our sins, and not hang down our heads, for we are not cast off; nevertheless, we have been adriven out of the land of our inheritance; but we have been led to a bbetter land, for the Lord has made the sea our cpath, and we are upon an disle of the sea.
But great are the promises of the Lord unto them who are upon the aisles of the sea; wherefore as it says isles, there must needs be more than this, and they are inhabited also by our brethren.
For behold, the Lord God has aled away from time to time from the house of Israel, according to his will and pleasure.
And now behold, the Lord remembereth all them who have been broken off, wherefore he remembereth us also.
Therefore, acheer up your hearts, and remember that ye are bfree to cact for yourselves—to dchoose the way of everlasting death or the way of eternal life.
Wherefore, my beloved brethren, areconcile yourselves to the bwill of God, and not to the will of the devil and the flesh; and remember, after ye are reconciled unto God, that it is only in and through the cgrace of God that ye are dsaved.
Wherefore, may God araise you from death by the power of the resurrection, and also from everlasting death by the power of the batonement, that ye may be received into the ceternal kingdom of God, that ye may praise him through grace divine.
Amen.
 And now, aJacob spake many more things to my people at that time; nevertheless only these things have I caused to be bwritten, for the things which I have written sufficeth me.
And now I, Nephi, write amore of the words of bIsaiah, for my soul delighteth in his words.
For I will liken his words unto my people, and I will send them forth unto all my children, for he verily csaw my dRedeemer, even as I have seen him.
And my brother, Jacob, also has aseen him as I have seen him; wherefore, I will send their words forth unto my children to prove unto them that my words are true.
Wherefore, by the words of bthree, God hath said, I will establish my word.
Nevertheless, God sendeth more cwitnesses, and he proveth all his words.
Behold, my soul delighteth in aproving unto my people the truth of the bcoming of Christ; for, for this end hath the claw of Moses been given; and all things which have been given of God from the beginning of the world, unto man, are the dtypifying of him.
And also my soul delighteth in the acovenants of the Lord which he hath made to our fathers; yea, my soul delighteth in his bgrace, and in his justice, and power, and mercy in the great and eternal plan of cdeliverance from death.
And my soul delighteth in proving unto my people that asave Christ should come all men must perish.
For if there be ano Christ there be no God; and if there be no God we are not, for there could have been no bcreation.
But there is a God, and che is Christ, and he cometh in the fulness of his own time.
And now I write asome of the words of Isaiah, that whoso of my people shall see these words may lift up their hearts and rejoice for all men.
Now these are the words, and ye may liken them unto you and unto all men.
 aThe word that Isaiah, the son of Amoz, saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem: And it shall come to pass in the last days, awhen the bmountain of the Lord’s chouse shall be established in the top of the dmountains, and shall be exalted above the hills, and all nations shall flow unto it.
And many apeople shall go and say, Come ye, and let us go up to the bmountain of the Lord, to the chouse of the God of Jacob; and he will teach us of his ways, and we will dwalk in his paths; for out of Zion shall go forth the law, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem.
And he shall ajudge among the nations, and shall rebuke many people: and they shall beat their swords into plow-shares, and their spears into pruning-hooks—nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any more.
O house of Jacob, come ye and let us walk in the light of the Lord; yea, come, for ye have all agone astray, every one to his bwicked ways.
Therefore, O Lord, thou hast forsaken thy people, the house of Jacob, because they be replenished from the east, and hearken unto asoothsayers like the bPhilistines, and they please themselves in the children of strangers.
Their land also is full of silver and gold, neither is there any end of their atreasures; their land is also full of horses, neither is there any end of their chariots.
Their land is also full of aidols; they worship the work of their own hands, that which their own fingers have made.
And the mean man aboweth bnot down, and the great man humbleth himself not, therefore, forgive him not.
O ye wicked ones, enter into the rock, and ahide thee in the dust, for the fear of the Lord and the glory of his majesty shall smite thee.
And it shall come to pass that the alofty looks of man shall be humbled, and the haughtiness of men shall be bowed down, and the Lord alone shall be exalted in that day.
For the aday of the Lord of Hosts soon cometh upon all nations, yea, upon every one; yea, upon the bproud and lofty, and upon every one who is lifted up, and he shall be brought low.
Yea, and the day of the Lord shall come upon all the acedars of Lebanon, for they are high and lifted up; and upon all the oaks of Bashan; And upon all the ahigh mountains, and upon all the hills, and upon all the nations which are lifted up, and upon every people; And upon every ahigh tower, and upon every fenced wall; And upon all the ships of the asea, and upon all the ships of Tarshish, and upon all pleasant pictures.
And the loftiness of man shall be bowed down, and the ahaughtiness of men shall be made low; and the Lord alone shall be exalted in bthat day.
And the idols he shall utterly abolish.
And they shall go into the holes of the rocks, and into the caves of the earth, for the fear of the Lord shall come upon them and the aglory of his majesty shall smite them, when he ariseth to shake terribly the earth.
In that day a man shall cast his idols of silver, and his idols of gold, which he hath made for himself to worship, to the moles and to the bats; To go into the clefts of the rocks, and into the tops of the ragged rocks, for the fear of the Lord shall come upon them and the majesty of his glory shall smite them, when he ariseth to shake terribly the earth.
Cease ye from man, whose breath is in his nostrils; for wherein is he to be accounted of?
 aFor behold, the Lord, the Lord of Hosts, doth take away from Jerusalem, and from Judah, the stay and the staff, the whole staff of bread, and the whole stay of water— The amighty man, and the man of bwar, the judge, and the prophet, and the cprudent, and the ancient; The captain of fifty, and the honorable man, and the counselor, and the cunning artificer, and the eloquent orator.
And I will give children unto them to be their princes, and babes shall rule over them.
And the people shall be aoppressed, every one by another, and every one by his neighbor; the child shall behave himself bproudly against the ancient, and the base against the honorable.
When a man shall take hold of his brother of the house of his father, and shall say: Thou hast clothing, be thou our ruler, and let not this aruin come under thy hand— In that day shall he swear, saying: I will not be a healer; for in my house there is neither bread nor clothing; make me not a ruler of the people.
For Jerusalem is aruined, and Judah is bfallen, because their ctongues and their doings have been against the Lord, to dprovoke the eyes of his glory.
The show of their countenance doth witness against them, and doth declare their asin to be even as bSodom, and they cannot hide it.
Wo unto their souls, for they have rewarded evil unto themselves!
Say unto the righteous that it is awell with them; for they shall beat the fruit of their doings.
Wo unto the wicked, for they shall perish; for the reward of their hands shall be upon them!
And my people, children are their oppressors, and women rule over them.
O my people, they who alead thee cause thee to err and destroy the way of thy paths.
The Lord standeth up to aplead, and standeth to judge the people.
The Lord will enter into ajudgment with the ancients of his people and the princes thereof; for ye have eaten up the bvineyard and the spoil of the cpoor in your houses.
What mean ye?
Ye abeat my people to pieces, and grind the faces of the poor, saith the Lord God of Hosts.
Moreover, the Lord saith: Because the daughters of Zion are ahaughty, and bwalk with stretched-forth necks and wanton eyes, walking and mincing as they go, and making a tinkling with their feet— Therefore the Lord will smite with a ascab the crown of the head of the daughters of Zion, and the Lord will bdiscover their secret parts.
In that aday the Lord will take away the bravery of their tinkling ornaments, and cauls, and round tires like the moon; The chains and the bracelets, and the mufflers; The bonnets, and the ornaments of the legs, and the headbands, and the tablets, and the ear-rings; The rings, and nose jewels; The changeable suits of apparel, and the mantles, and the wimples, and the crisping-pins; The glasses, and the fine linen, and hoods, and the veils.
And it shall come to pass, instead of sweet smell there shall be stink; and instead of a girdle, a rent; and instead of well set hair, abaldness; and instead of a stomacher, a girding of sackcloth; bburning instead of cbeauty.
Thy men shall fall by the sword and thy mighty in the war.
And her agates shall lament and bmourn; and she shall be desolate, and shall csit upon the ground.
 aAnd in that day, seven women shall take hold of one man, saying: We will eat our own bread, and wear our own apparel; only let us be called by thy name to take away our breproach.
In that day shall the abranch of the Lord be beautiful and glorious; the fruit of the earth excellent and comely to them that are escaped of Israel.
And it shall come to pass, they that are aleft in Zion and remain in Jerusalem shall be called holy, every one that is written among the living in Jerusalem— When the Lord shall have awashed away the filth of the daughters of Zion, and shall have purged the blood of Jerusalem from the midst thereof by the spirit of judgment and by the spirit of bburning.
And the aLord will create upon every dwelling-place of mount Zion, and upon her assemblies, a bcloud and smoke by day and the shining of a flaming fire by night; for upon all the glory of Zion shall be a defence.
And there shall be a tabernacle for a shadow in the daytime from the heat, and for a place of arefuge, and a covert from storm and from rain.
 aAnd it came to pass in the days of bAhaz the son of cJotham, the son of Uzziah, king of Judah, that dRezin, king of Syria, and ePekah the son of Remaliah, king of Israel, went up toward Jerusalem to war against it, but could not prevail against it.
And it was told the house of David, saying: Syria is confederate with Ephraim.
And his heart was moved, and the heart of his people, as the trees of the wood are moved with the wind.
Then said the Lord unto Isaiah: Go forth now to meet Ahaz, thou and Shearjashub thy son, at the end of the aconduit of the upper pool in the highway of the fuller’s field; And say unto him: Take heed, and be quiet; fear not, neither be faint-hearted for the two tails of these smoking firebrands, for the fierce anger of Rezin with Syria, and of the son of Remaliah.
Because Syria, Ephraim, and the son of Remaliah, have taken evil counsel against thee, saying: Let us go up against Judah and vex it, and let us make a breach therein for us, and set a king in the midst of it, yea, the son of Tabeal.
Thus saith the Lord God: aIt shall not stand, neither shall it come to pass.
For the head of Syria is Damascus, and the head of Damascus, Rezin; and within threescore and five years shall Ephraim be abroken that it be not a people.
And the head of Ephraim is Samaria, and the head of Samaria is Remaliah’s son.
If ye will anot believe surely ye shall not be established.
Moreover, the Lord spake again unto Ahaz, saying: Ask thee a asign of the Lord thy God; ask it either in the depths, or in the heights above.
But Ahaz said: I will not ask, neither will I atempt the Lord.
And he said: Hear ye now, O house of David; is it a small thing for you to weary men, but will ye weary my God also?
Therefore, the Lord himself shall give you a sign—Behold, a avirgin shall conceive, and shall bear a son, and shall call his name bImmanuel.
Butter and ahoney shall he eat, that he may know to refuse the evil and to choose the good.
For abefore the child shall know to refuse the evil and choose the good, the land that thou abhorrest shall be forsaken of bboth her kings.
The Lord shall abring upon thee, and upon thy people, and upon thy father’s house, days that have not come from the day that bEphraim departed from Judah, the king of Assyria.
And it shall come to pass in that day that the Lord shall hiss for the fly that is in the uttermost part of Egypt, and for the bee that is in the land of Assyria.
And they shall come, and shall rest all of them in the desolate valleys, and in the holes of the rocks, and upon all thorns, and upon all bushes.
In the same day shall the Lord shave with a arazor that is hired, by them beyond the river, by the king of Assyria, the head, and the hair of the feet; and it shall also consume the beard.
And it shall come to pass in that day, a man shall nourish a young cow and two sheep; And it shall come to pass, for the abundance of milk they shall give he shall eat butter; for butter and honey shall every one eat that is left in the land.
And it shall come to pass in that day, every place shall be, where there were a thousand vines at a thousand silverlings, which shall be for briers and thorns.
With arrows and with bows shall men come thither, because all the land shall become briers and thorns.
And all hills that shall be digged with the mattock, there shall not come thither the fear of briers and thorns; but it shall be for the sending forth of oxen, and the treading of lesser cattle.
 Moreover, the word of the Lord said unto me: Take thee a great aroll, and write in it with a man’s pen, concerning bMaher-shalal-hash-baz.
And I took unto me faithful awitnesses to record, Uriah the priest, and Zechariah the son of Jeberechiah.
And I went unto the prophetess; and she conceived and bare a son.
Then said the Lord to me: aCall his name, Maher-shalal-hash-baz.
For behold, athe child shall bnot have knowledge to cry, My father, and my mother, before the riches of Damascus and the cspoil of dSamaria shall be taken away before the king of eAssyria.
The Lord spake also unto me again, saying: Forasmuch as this people refuseth the waters of aShiloah that go softly, and rejoice in bRezin and Remaliah’s son; Now therefore, behold, the Lord bringeth up upon them the waters of the river, strong and many, even the king of aAssyria and all his glory; and he shall come up over all his channels, and go over all his banks.
And he shall pass through Judah; he shall overflow and go over, he shall areach even to the neck; and the stretching out of his wings shall fill the breadth of thy land, O Immanuel.
aAssociate yourselves, O ye people, and ye shall be broken in pieces; and give ear all ye of far countries; gird yourselves, and ye shall be broken in pieces; gird yourselves, and ye shall be broken in pieces.
Take counsel together, and it shall come to naught; speak the word, and it shall not stand; for God is with us.
For the Lord spake thus to me with a strong hand, and instructed me that I should not walk in the way of this people, saying: Say ye not, A confederacy, to all to whom this people shall say, A aconfederacy; neither fear ye their fear, nor be afraid.
Sanctify the Lord of Hosts himself, and let him be your fear, and let him be your dread.
And he shall be for a sanctuary; but for a astone of bstumbling, and for a crock of doffense to both the houses of Israel, for a gin and a esnare to the inhabitants of Jerusalem.
And many among them shall astumble and fall, and be broken, and be snared, and be taken.
aBind up the testimony, seal the law among my disciples.
And I will wait upon the Lord, that ahideth his face from the house of Jacob, and I will look for him.
Behold, I and the children whom the Lord hath given me are for asigns and for wonders in Israel from the Lord of Hosts, which dwelleth in Mount Zion.
And when they shall say unto you: Seek unto them that have afamiliar spirits, and unto bwizards that peep and mutter—cshould not a people seek unto their God for the living to hear from the dead?
To the alaw and to the testimony; and if they speak not according to this word, it is because there is no light in them.
And they shall pass through it hardly bestead and hungry; and it shall come to pass that when they shall be hungry, they shall fret themselves, and curse their king and their God, and look upward.
And they shall look unto the earth and behold trouble, and adarkness, dimness of anguish, and shall be driven to darkness.
 aNevertheless, the dimness shall not be such as was in her vexation, when at first he lightly afflicted the bland of cZebulun, and the land of dNaphtali, and afterwards did more grievously afflict by the way of the Red Sea beyond Jordan in Galilee of the nations.
The people that walked in darkness have seen a great light; they that dwell in the land of the shadow of death, upon them hath the light shined.
Thou hast multiplied the nation, and aincreased the joy—they joy before thee according to the joy in harvest, and as men rejoice when they divide the spoil.
For thou hast broken the yoke of ahis burden, and the staff of his shoulder, the rod of his boppressor.
For every battle of the warrior is with confused noise, and garments rolled in blood; but athis shall be with burning and fuel of fire.
For unto us a achild is born, unto us a son is given; and the bgovernment shall be upon his shoulder; and his name shall be called, Wonderful, Counselor, The cMighty God, The dEverlasting Father, The Prince of ePeace.
Of the increase of agovernment and peace bthere is no end, upon the throne of cDavid, and upon his kingdom to order it, and to establish it with judgment and with justice from henceforth, even forever.
The zeal of the Lord of Hosts will perform this.
The Lord sent his word unto Jacob and it hath lighted upon Israel.
And all the people shall know, even Ephraim and the inhabitants of Samaria, that say in the pride and stoutness of heart: The bricks are fallen down, but we will build with hewn astones; the sycamores are cut down, but we will change them into bcedars.
Therefore the Lord shall set up the adversaries of aRezin against him, and join his enemies together; The Syrians before and the Philistines behind; and they shall adevour Israel with open mouth.
For all this his banger is not turned away, but his hand is stretched out still.
For the people turneth not unto ahim that smiteth them, neither do they seek the Lord of Hosts.
Therefore will the Lord cut off from Israel head and tail, branch and rush ain one day.
The aancient, he is the head; and the prophet that teacheth lies, he is the tail.
For the aleaders of this people cause them to err; and they that are bled of them are destroyed.
Therefore the Lord shall have no joy in their young men, neither shall have amercy on their fatherless and bwidows; for cevery one of them is a hypocrite and an devildoer, and every mouth speaketh efolly.
For all this his anger is not turned away, but his fhand is stretched out still.
For awickedness burneth as the fire; it shall devour the briers and thorns, and shall kindle in the thickets of the forests, and they shall mount up like the lifting up of smoke.
Through the wrath of the Lord of Hosts is the aland darkened, and the people shall be as the fuel of the fire; bno man shall spare his brother.
And he ashall snatch on the right hand and be hungry; and he shall beat on the left hand and they shall not be satisfied; they shall eat every man the flesh of his own arm— Manasseh, aEphraim; and Ephraim, Manasseh; they together shall be against bJudah.
For all this his anger is not turned away, but his hand is stretched out still.
 And now, Jacob, I speak unto you: Thou art my afirstborn in the days of my tribulation in the wilderness.
And behold, in thy childhood thou hast suffered afflictions and much sorrow, because of the rudeness of thy brethren.
Nevertheless, Jacob, my firstborn in the wilderness, thou knowest the greatness of God; and he shall consecrate thine aafflictions for thy gain.
Wherefore, thy soul shall be blessed, and thou shalt dwell safely with thy brother, Nephi; and thy days shall be aspent in the service of thy God.
Wherefore, I know that thou art redeemed, because of the righteousness of thy Redeemer; for thou hast bbeheld that in the cfulness of time he cometh to bring salvation unto men.
And thou hast abeheld in thy youth his glory; wherefore, thou art blessed even as they unto whom he shall minister in the flesh; for the Spirit is the same, yesterday, today, and forever.
And the way is prepared from the fall of man, and bsalvation is cfree.
And men are instructed sufficiently that they aknow good from evil.
And the blaw is given unto men.
And by the law no flesh is cjustified; or, by the law men are dcut off.
Yea, by the temporal law they were cut off; and also, by the spiritual law they perish from that which is good, and become miserable forever.
Wherefore, aredemption cometh in and through the bHoly cMessiah; for he is full of dgrace and truth.
Behold, he offereth himself a asacrifice for sin, to answer the ends of the law, unto all those who have a broken heart and a contrite spirit; and unto bnone else can the cends of the law be answered.
Wherefore, how great the importance to make these things known unto the inhabitants of the earth, that they may know that there is no flesh that can dwell in the presence of God, asave it be through the merits, and mercy, and grace of the Holy Messiah, who blayeth down his life according to the flesh, and taketh it again by the power of the Spirit, that he may bring to pass the cresurrection of the dead, being the first that should rise.
Wherefore, he is the firstfruits unto God, inasmuch as he shall make aintercession for all the children of men; and they that believe in him shall be saved.
And because of the intercession for aall, all men come unto God; wherefore, they stand in the presence of him, to be bjudged of him according to the truth and choliness which is in him.
Wherefore, the ends of the law which the Holy One hath given, unto the inflicting of the dpunishment which is affixed, which punishment that is affixed is in opposition to that of the happiness which is affixed, to answer the ends of the eatonement— For it must needs be, that there is an aopposition in all things.
If not so, my firstborn in the wilderness, righteousness could not be brought to pass, neither wickedness, neither holiness nor misery, neither good nor bad.
Wherefore, all things must needs be a compound in one; wherefore, if it should be one body it must needs remain as dead, having no life neither death, nor corruption nor incorruption, happiness nor misery, neither sense nor insensibility.
Wherefore, it must needs have been created for a thing of naught; wherefore there would have been no apurpose in the end of its creation.
Wherefore, this thing must needs destroy the wisdom of God and his eternal purposes, and also the power, and the mercy, and the bjustice of God.
And if ye shall say there is ano law, ye shall also say there is no sin.
If ye shall say there is no sin, ye shall also say there is no righteousness.
And if there be no righteousness there be no happiness.
And if there be no righteousness nor happiness there be no punishment nor misery.
And if these things are not bthere is no God.
And if there is no God we are not, neither the earth; for there could have been no creation of things, neither to act nor to be acted upon; wherefore, all things must have vanished away.
And now, my sons, I speak unto you these things for your profit and alearning; for there is a God, and he hath bcreated all things, both the heavens and the earth, and all things that in them are, both things to act and things to be cacted upon.
And to bring about his eternal apurposes in the end of man, after he had bcreated our first parents, and the beasts of the field and the cfowls of the air, and in fine, all things which are created, it must needs be that there was an opposition; even the dforbidden efruit in fopposition to the gtree of life; the one being sweet and the other bitter.
Wherefore, the Lord God gave unto man that he should aact for himself.
Wherefore, man could not bact for himself save it should be that he was centiced by the one or the other.
And I, Lehi, according to the things which I have read, must needs suppose that an aangel of God, according to that which is written, had bfallen from heaven; wherefore, he became a cdevil, having sought that which was evil before God.
And because he had fallen from heaven, and had become miserable forever, he asought also the misery of all mankind.
Wherefore, he said unto Eve, yea, even that old serpent, who is the devil, who is the father of all blies, wherefore he said: Partake of the forbidden fruit, and ye shall not die, but ye shall be as God, cknowing good and evil.
And after Adam and Eve had apartaken of the forbidden fruit they were driven out of the garden of bEden, to till the earth.
And they have brought forth children; yea, even the afamily of all the earth.
And the days of the children of amen were prolonged, according to the bwill of God, that they might crepent while in the flesh; wherefore, their state became a state of dprobation, and their time was lengthened, according to the commandments which the Lord God gave unto the children of men.
For he gave commandment that all men must repent; for he showed unto all men that they were elost, because of the transgression of their parents.
And now, behold, if Adam had not transgressed he would not have fallen, but he would have remained in the garden of Eden.
And all things which were created must have remained in the same state in which they were after they were created; and they must have remained forever, and had no end.
And they would have had no achildren; wherefore they would have remained in a state of innocence, having no bjoy, for they knew no misery; doing no good, for they knew no csin.
But behold, all things have been done in the wisdom of him who aknoweth all things.
aAdam bfell that men might be; and men care, that they might have djoy.
And the aMessiah cometh in the fulness of time, that he may bredeem the children of men from the fall.
And because that they are credeemed from the fall they have become dfree forever, knowing good from evil; to act for themselves and not to be acted upon, save it be by the punishment of the elaw at the great and last day, according to the commandments which God hath given.
Wherefore, men are afree according to the bflesh; and call things are dgiven them which are expedient unto man.
And they are free to echoose fliberty and eternal glife, through the great Mediator of all men, or to choose captivity and death, according to the captivity and power of the devil; for he seeketh that all men might be hmiserable like unto himself.
And now, my sons, I would that ye should look to the great aMediator, and hearken unto his great commandments; and be faithful unto his words, and choose eternal life, according to the will of his Holy Spirit; And not choose eternal death, according to the will of the flesh and the aevil which is therein, which giveth the spirit of the devil power to bcaptivate, to bring you down to chell, that he may reign over you in his own kingdom.
I have spoken these few words unto you all, my sons, in the last days of my probation; and I have chosen the good part, according to the words of the prophet.
And I have none other object save it be the everlasting awelfare of your souls.
Amen.
 aWo unto them that decree bunrighteous decrees, and that write grievousness which they have prescribed; To turn away the needy from judgment, and to take away the right from the apoor of my people, that bwidows may be their prey, and that they may rob the fatherless!
And what will ye do in the day of visitation, and in the desolation which shall come from far?
to whom will ye flee for help?
and where will ye leave your glory?
Without me they shall bow down under the prisoners, and they shall fall under the slain.
For all this his anger is not turned away, but his hand is stretched out still.
O Assyrian, the rod of mine anger, and the staff in their hand is atheir indignation.
I will send him aagainst a hypocritical nation, and against the people of my wrath will I give him a charge to take the spoil, and to take the prey, and to tread them down like the mire of the streets.
Howbeit he meaneth not so, neither doth his heart think so; but in his heart it is to destroy and cut off nations not a few.
For he saith: Are not my aprinces altogether kings?
Is not aCalno as bCarchemish?
Is not Hamath as Arpad?
Is not Samaria as cDamascus?
As amy hand hath founded the kingdoms of the idols, and whose graven images did excel them of Jerusalem and of Samaria; Shall I not, as I have done unto Samaria and her aidols, so do to Jerusalem and to her idols?
Wherefore it shall come to pass that when the Lord hath performed his whole work upon Mount Zion and upon Jerusalem, I will punish the fruit of the stout heart of the king of aAssyria, and the glory of his high looks.
For ahe saith: By the strength of bmy hand and by my wisdom I have done these things; for I am prudent; and I have moved the borders of the people, and have robbed their treasures, and I have put down the inhabitants like a valiant man; And my hand hath found as a nest the riches of the people; and as one gathereth eggs that are left have I gathered all the earth; and there was none that moved the wing, or opened the mouth, or peeped.
Shall the aax boast itself against him that heweth therewith?
Shall the saw magnify itself against him that shaketh it?
As if the rod should shake itself against them that lift it up, or as if the staff should lift up itself as if it were no wood!
Therefore shall the Lord, the Lord of Hosts, send among his fat ones, leanness; and under his glory he shall kindle a burning like the burning of a fire.
And the light of Israel shall be for a afire, and his Holy One for a flame, and shall burn and shall devour his thorns and his briers in one day; And shall consume the glory of his forest, and of his fruitful field, both soul and body; and they shall be as when a standard-bearer fainteth.
And the arest of the trees of his forest shall be few, that a child may write them.
And it shall come to pass in that day, that the remnant of Israel, and such as are escaped of the ahouse of Jacob, shall no more again bstay upon him that smote them, but shall stay upon the Lord, the Holy One of Israel, in truth.
The aremnant shall return, yea, even the remnant of Jacob, unto the mighty God.
For though thy people aIsrael be as the sand of the sea, yet a remnant of them shall breturn; the cconsumption decreed shall overflow with righteousness.
For the Lord God of Hosts shall make a aconsumption, even determined in all the land.
Therefore, thus saith the Lord God of Hosts: O my people that dwellest in Zion, abe not afraid of the Assyrian; he shall smite thee with a rod, and shall lift up his staff against thee, after the bmanner of Egypt.
For yet a very little while, and the aindignation shall cease, and mine anger in their destruction.
And the Lord of Hosts shall astir up a scourge for him according to the slaughter of bMidian at the rock of Oreb; and as his rod was upon the sea so shall he lift it up after the manner of cEgypt.
And it shall come to pass in that day that his aburden shall be taken away from off thy shoulder, and his yoke from off thy neck, and the yoke shall be destroyed because of the banointing.
aHe is come to Aiath, he is passed to Migron; at Michmash he hath laid up his carriages.
They are gone over the apassage; they have taken up their lodging at bGeba; Ramath is afraid; cGibeah of Saul is fled.
Lift up the voice, O daughter of aGallim; cause it to be heard unto Laish, O poor bAnathoth.
Madmenah is removed; the inhabitants of Gebim gather themselves to flee.
As yet shall he remain at aNob that day; he shall shake his hand against the mount of the daughter of Zion, the hill of Jerusalem.
Behold, the Lord, the Lord of Hosts shall lop the bough with terror; and the ahigh ones of stature shall be bhewn down; and the chaughty shall be humbled.
And he shall cut down the thickets of the forests with iron, and Lebanon shall fall by a mighty one.
 aAnd there shall bcome forth a rod out of the cstem of Jesse, and a dbranch shall grow out of his roots.
And the aSpirit of the Lord shall rest upon him, the spirit of bwisdom and cunderstanding, the spirit of counsel and might, the spirit of knowledge and of the fear of the Lord; And shall make him of quick understanding in the fear of the Lord; and he shall not ajudge after the sight of his eyes, neither reprove after the hearing of his ears.
But with arighteousness shall he bjudge the poor, and reprove with equity for the cmeek of the earth; and he shall dsmite the earth with the erod of his mouth, and with the breath of his lips shall he slay the wicked.
And arighteousness shall be the girdle of his loins, and faithfulness the girdle of his reins.
The awolf also shall dwell with the lamb, and the leopard shall lie down with the kid, and the calf and the young lion and fatling together; and a little child shall lead them.
And the cow and the bear shall feed; their young ones shall lie down together; and the lion shall eat straw like the ox.
And the sucking child shall play on the hole of the asp, and the weaned child shall put his hand on the cockatrice’s den.
They shall anot hurt nor bdestroy in all my holy mountain, for the cearth shall be full of the dknowledge of the Lord, as the waters cover the sea.
And in that day there shall be a aroot of Jesse, which shall stand for an ensign of the people; to it shall the bGentiles seek; and his crest shall be glorious.
And it shall come to pass in that day that the Lord shall set his hand again the asecond time to recover the remnant of his people which shall be left, from bAssyria, and from Egypt, and from Pathros, and from Cush, and from Elam, and from cShinar, and from Hamath, and from the islands of the sea.
And he shall set up an aensign for the nations, and shall assemble the boutcasts of Israel, and cgather together the dispersed of Judah from the four corners of the earth.
The aenvy of Ephraim also shall depart, and the adversaries of Judah shall be cut off; Ephraim shall not benvy cJudah, and Judah shall not vex Ephraim.
But they shall fly upon the shoulders of the aPhilistines towards the west; they shall spoil them of the east together; they shall lay their hand upon bEdom and cMoab; and the children of Ammon shall obey them.
And the Lord shall utterly adestroy the tongue of the Egyptian sea; and with his mighty wind he shall shake his hand over the river, and shall smite it in the seven streams, and make men go over bdry shod.
And there shall be a ahighway for the remnant of his people which shall be left, from Assyria, like as it was to Israel in the day that he came up out of the land of Egypt.
 aAnd in that day thou shalt say: O Lord, I will praise thee; though thou wast angry with me thine anger is turned away, and thou comfortedst me.
Behold, God is my salvation; I will atrust, and not be afraid; for the Lord bJehovah is my cstrength and my dsong; he also has become my salvation.
Therefore, with joy shall ye draw awater out of the wells of salvation.
And in that day shall ye say: aPraise the Lord, call upon his name, declare his doings among the people, make mention that his name is exalted.
aSing unto the Lord; for he hath done excellent things; this is known in all the earth.
aCry out and shout, thou inhabitant of Zion; for great is the Holy One of Israel in the midst of thee.
 aThe burden of bBabylon, which Isaiah the son of Amoz did see.
Lift ye up a banner upon the high mountain, exalt the voice unto them, ashake the hand, that they may go into the gates of the nobles.
I have commanded my sanctified ones, I have also called my amighty ones, for mine anger is not upon them that rejoice in my highness.
The noise of the multitude in the mountains like as of a great people, a tumultuous noise of the akingdoms of nations bgathered together, the Lord of Hosts mustereth the hosts of the battle.
They come from a far country, from the end of heaven, yea, the Lord, and the weapons of his indignation, to destroy the whole land.
Howl ye, for the aday of the Lord is at hand; it shall come as a destruction from the Almighty.
Therefore shall all hands be faint, every man’s heart shall amelt; And they shall be afraid; pangs and sorrows shall take hold of them; they shall be amazed one at another; their faces shall be as flames.
Behold, the day of the Lord cometh, cruel both with wrath and fierce anger, to lay the land desolate; and he shall adestroy the sinners thereof out of it.
For the astars of heaven and the bconstellations thereof shall not give their clight; the dsun shall be darkened in his going forth, and the moon shall not cause her light to shine.
And I will apunish the world for evil, and the bwicked for their iniquity; I will cause the arrogancy of the cproud to cease, and will lay down the haughtiness of the terrible.
I will make a aman more precious than fine gold; even a man than the golden wedge of Ophir.
Therefore, I will ashake the heavens, and the earth shall bremove out of her place, in the wrath of the Lord of Hosts, and in the day of his fierce anger.
And it shall be as the chased roe, and as a sheep that no man taketh up; and they shall every man turn to his own people, and flee every one into his own aland.
Every one that is proud shall be thrust through; yea, and every one that is ajoined to the wicked shall fall by the sword.
Their achildren also shall be bdashed to pieces before their eyes; their houses shall be spoiled and their wives ravished.
Behold, I will stir up the aMedes against them, which shall not regard silver and gold, nor shall they delight in it.
Their bows shall also dash the young men to pieces; and they shall have no apity on the fruit of the womb; their eyes shall not spare children.
And aBabylon, the glory of kingdoms, the beauty of the Chaldees’ excellency, shall be as when God overthrew bSodom and Gomorrah.
It shall never be ainhabited, neither shall it be dwelt in from generation to generation: neither shall the Arabian pitch tent there; neither shall the shepherds make their fold there.
But awild beasts of the desert shall lie there; and their houses shall be full of doleful creatures; and owls shall dwell there, and satyrs shall dance there.
And the wild beasts of the islands shall cry in their desolate houses, and dragons in their pleasant palaces; and her time is near to come, and her day shall not be prolonged.
For I will destroy her speedily; yea, for I will be merciful unto my people, but the wicked shall perish.
 aFor the Lord will have mercy on Jacob, and will yet bchoose Israel, and set them in their own land; and the cstrangers shall be joined with them, and they shall cleave to the house of Jacob.
And the people shall take them and bring them to their place; yea, from far unto the ends of the earth; and they shall return to their alands of promise.
And the house of Israel shall bpossess them, and the land of the Lord shall be for cservants and handmaids; and they shall take them captives unto whom they were captives; and they shall drule over their oppressors.
And it shall come to pass in that day that the Lord shall give thee arest, from thy sorrow, and from thy fear, and from the hard bondage wherein thou wast made to serve.
And it shall come to pass in that day, that thou shalt take up this proverb aagainst the king of bBabylon, and say: How hath the oppressor ceased, the golden city ceased!
The Lord hath broken the staff of the awicked, the scepters of the rulers.
aHe who smote the people in wrath with a continual stroke, he that ruled the nations in anger, is persecuted, and none hindereth.
The whole earth is at arest, and is quiet; they break forth into bsinging.
Yea, the fir trees rejoice at thee, and also the cedars of Lebanon, saying: Since thou art laid down no feller is come up against us.
aHell from beneath is moved for thee to meet thee at thy coming; it stirreth up the bdead for thee, even all the chief ones of the earth; it hath raised up from their thrones all the kings of the nations.
All they shall speak and say unto thee: Art thou also become weak as we?
Art thou become like unto us?
Thy pomp is brought down to the grave; the noise of thy viols is not heard; the worm is spread under thee, and the worms cover thee.
aHow art thou fallen from heaven, O bLucifer, son of the morning!
Art thou cut down to the ground, which did weaken the nations!
For thou hast said in thy heart: aI will ascend into heaven, I will exalt my throne above the stars of God; I will sit also upon the mount of the congregation, in the sides of the north; aI will ascend above the heights of the clouds; I will be like the Most High.
Yet thou shalt be brought down to hell, to the sides of the apit.
They that see thee shall narrowly look upon thee, and shall consider thee, and shall say: Is this the man that made the earth to tremble, that did shake kingdoms?
And made the world as a wilderness, and destroyed the cities thereof, and opened not the house of his prisoners?
All the kings of the nations, yea, all of them, lie in glory, every one of them in his own house.
But thou art cast out of thy grave like an abominable branch, and the remnant of those that are slain, thrust through with a sword, that go down to the stones of the pit; as a carcass trodden under feet.
Thou shalt not be joined with them in burial, because thou hast destroyed thy land and slain thy people; the aseed of bevil-doers shall never be renowned.
Prepare slaughter for his children for the ainiquities of their fathers, that they do not rise, nor possess the land, nor fill the face of the world with cities.
For I will rise up against them, saith the Lord of Hosts, and cut off from Babylon the aname, and remnant, and son, and bnephew, saith the Lord.
I will also make it a apossession for the bittern, and pools of water; and I will sweep it with the besom of destruction, saith the Lord of Hosts.
The Lord of Hosts hath sworn, saying: Surely as I have thought, so shall it come to pass; and as I have purposed, so shall it stand— That I will bring the Assyrian in my land, and upon my mountains tread him under foot; then shall his ayoke depart from off them, and his burden depart from off their shoulders.
This is the purpose that is purposed upon the whole earth; and this is the hand that is stretched out upon all nations.
For the Lord of Hosts hath purposed, and who shall disannul?
And his hand is stretched out, and who shall turn it back?
In the year that king aAhaz died was this burden.
Rejoice not thou, whole Palestina, because the rod of him that asmote thee is broken; for out of the serpent’s root shall come forth a cockatrice, and his bfruit shall be a cfiery flying serpent.
And the firstborn of the poor shall feed, and the needy shall lie down in safety; and I will kill thy root with famine, and he shall slay thy remnant.
Howl, O gate; cry, O city; thou, whole Palestina, art dissolved; for there shall come from the north a smoke, and none shall be alone in his appointed times.
What shall then answer the messengers of the nations?
That the Lord hath founded aZion, and the bpoor of his people shall trust in it.
 Now I, Nephi, do speak somewhat concerning the words which I have written, which have been spoken by the mouth of Isaiah.
For behold, Isaiah spake many things which were ahard for many of my people to understand; for they know not concerning the manner of prophesying among the Jews.
For I, Nephi, have not taught them many things concerning the manner of the Jews; for their aworks were works of darkness, and their doings were doings of abominations.
Wherefore, I write unto my people, unto all those that shall receive hereafter these things which I write, athat they may know the judgments of God, that they come upon all nations, according to the word which he hath spoken.
Wherefore, hearken, O my people, which are of the house of Israel, and give ear unto my words; for because the words of Isaiah are not plain unto you, nevertheless they are plain unto all those that are filled with the aspirit of bprophecy.
But I give unto you a cprophecy, according to the spirit which is in me; wherefore I shall prophesy according to the dplainness which hath been with me from the time that I came out from Jerusalem with my father; for behold, my soul delighteth in eplainness unto my people, that they may learn.
Yea, and my soul delighteth in the words of aIsaiah, for I came out from Jerusalem, and mine eyes hath beheld the things of the bJews, and I know that the Jews do cunderstand the things of the prophets, and there is none other people that understand the things which were spoken unto the Jews like unto them, save it be that they are taught after the manner of the things of the Jews.
But behold, I, Nephi, have not taught my children after the manner of the Jews; but behold, I, of myself, have dwelt at Jerusalem, wherefore I know concerning the regions round about; and I have made mention unto my children concerning the judgments of God, which ahath come to pass among the Jews, unto my children, according to all that which Isaiah hath spoken, and I do not write them.
But behold, I proceed with mine own prophecy, according to my aplainness; in the which I bknow that no man can err; nevertheless, in the days that the prophecies of Isaiah shall be fulfilled men shall know of a surety, at the times when they shall come to pass.
Wherefore, they are of aworth unto the children of men, and he that supposeth that they are not, unto them will I speak particularly, and confine the words unto mine bown people; for I know that they shall be of great worth unto them in the clast days; for in that day shall they understand them; wherefore, for their good have I written them.
And as one generation hath been adestroyed among the Jews because of iniquity, even so have they been destroyed from generation to generation according to their iniquities; and never hath any of them been destroyed save it were bforetold them by the prophets of the Lord.
Wherefore, it hath been told them concerning the destruction which should come upon them, immediately after my father left aJerusalem; nevertheless, they bhardened their hearts; and according to my prophecy they have been destroyed, save it be those which are ccarried away dcaptive into Babylon.
And now this I speak because of the aspirit which is in me.
And notwithstanding they have been carried away they shall return again, and possess the land of Jerusalem; wherefore, they shall be brestored again to the cland of their inheritance.
But, behold, they shall have awars, and rumors of wars; and when the day cometh that the bOnly Begotten of the Father, yea, even the Father of heaven and of earth, shall cmanifest himself unto them in the flesh, behold, they will reject him, because of their iniquities, and the hardness of their hearts, and the stiffness of their necks.
Behold, they will acrucify him; and after he is laid in a bsepulchre for the space of cthree days he shall drise from the dead, with healing in his wings; and all those who shall believe on his name shall be saved in the kingdom of God.
Wherefore, my soul delighteth to prophesy concerning him, for I have eseen his day, and my heart doth magnify his holy name.
And behold it shall come to pass that after the aMessiah hath risen from the dead, and hath manifested himself unto his people, unto as many as will believe on his name, behold, Jerusalem shall be bdestroyed again; for cwo unto them that fight against God and the people of his dchurch.
Wherefore, the aJews shall be bscattered among all nations; yea, and also cBabylon shall be destroyed; wherefore, the Jews shall be scattered by other nations.
And after they have been ascattered, and the Lord God hath scourged them by other nations for the space of many generations, yea, even down from generation to generation until they shall be persuaded to bbelieve in Christ, the Son of God, and the atonement, which is infinite for all mankind—and when that day shall come that they shall believe in Christ, and worship the Father in his name, with pure hearts and cclean hands, and look not forward any more for danother Messiah, then, at that time, the day will come that it must needs be expedient that they should believe these things.
And the Lord will set his hand again the second time to arestore his people from their lost and fallen state.
Wherefore, he will proceed to do a bmarvelous work and a wonder among the children of men.
Wherefore, he shall bring forth ahis bwords unto them, which words shall cjudge them at the last day, for they shall be given them for the purpose of dconvincing them of the true Messiah, who was rejected by them; and unto the convincing of them that they need not look forward any more for a Messiah to come, for there should not any come, save it should be a efalse Messiah which should deceive the people; for there is save one fMessiah spoken of by the prophets, and that Messiah is he who should be rejected of the Jews.
For according to the words of the prophets, the aMessiah cometh in bsix hundred years from the time that my father left Jerusalem; and according to the words of the prophets, and also the word of the cangel of God, his dname shall be Jesus Christ, the eSon of God.
And now, my brethren, I have spoken plainly that ye cannot err.
And as the Lord God liveth that abrought Israel up out of the land of Egypt, and gave unto Moses power that he should bheal the nations after they had been bitten by the poisonous serpents, if they would cast their eyes unto the cserpent which he did raise up before them, and also gave him power that he should smite the drock and the water should come forth; yea, behold I say unto you, that as these things are etrue, and as the Lord God liveth, there is none other fname given under heaven save it be this Jesus Christ, of which I have spoken, whereby man can be saved.
Wherefore, for this cause hath the Lord God promised unto me that these things which I awrite shall be kept and preserved, and handed down unto my seed, from generation to generation, that the promise may be fulfilled unto Joseph, that his seed should never bperish as long as the earth should stand.
Wherefore, these things shall go from generation to generation as long as the earth shall stand; and they shall go according to the will and pleasure of God; and the nations who shall possess them shall be ajudged of them according to the words which are written.
For we labor diligently to write, to apersuade our children, and also our brethren, to believe in Christ, and to be reconciled to God; for we know that it is by bgrace that we are saved, after all we can cdo.
And, notwithstanding we believe in Christ, we akeep the law of Moses, and look forward with steadfastness unto Christ, until the law shall be fulfilled.
For, for this end was the alaw given; wherefore the law hath become bdead unto us, and we are made alive in Christ because of our faith; yet we keep the law because of the commandments.
And we atalk of Christ, we rejoice in Christ, we preach of Christ, we bprophesy of Christ, and we write according to our prophecies, that our cchildren may know to what source they may look for a dremission of their sins.
Wherefore, we speak concerning the law that our children may know the deadness of the law; and they, by knowing the deadness of the law, may look forward unto that life which is in Christ, and know for what end the law was given.
And after the law is fulfilled in Christ, that they need not harden their hearts against him when the law ought to be done away.
And now behold, my people, ye are a astiffnecked people; wherefore, I have spoken plainly unto you, that ye cannot misunderstand.
And the words which I have spoken shall stand as a btestimony against you; for they are sufficient to cteach any man the dright way; for the right way is to believe in Christ and deny him not; for by denying him ye also deny the prophets and the law.
And now behold, I say unto you that the right way is to believe in Christ, and deny him not; and Christ is the Holy One of Israel; wherefore ye must bow down before him, and aworship him with all your bmight, mind, and strength, and your whole soul; and if ye do this ye shall in nowise be cast out.
And, inasmuch as it shall be expedient, ye must keep the aperformances and bordinances of God until the law shall be fulfilled which was given unto Moses.
 And after Christ shall have arisen from the dead he shall bshow himself unto you, my children, and my beloved brethren; and the words which he shall speak unto you shall be the claw which ye shall do.
For behold, I say unto you that I have beheld that many generations shall pass away, and there shall be great wars and contentions among my people.
And after the Messiah shall come there shall be asigns given unto my people of his bbirth, and also of his cdeath and resurrection; and great and terrible shall that day be unto the wicked, for they shall perish; and they perish because they cast out the dprophets, and the saints, and stone them, and slay them; wherefore the cry of the eblood of the saints shall ascend up to God from the ground against them.
Wherefore, all those who are proud, and that do wickedly, the day that cometh shall aburn them up, saith the Lord of Hosts, for they shall be as stubble.
And they that kill the aprophets, and the saints, the depths of the earth shall bswallow them up, saith the Lord of Hosts; and cmountains shall cover them, and whirlwinds shall carry them away, and buildings shall fall upon them and crush them to pieces and grind them to powder.
And they shall be visited with thunderings, and lightnings, and earthquakes, and all manner of destructions, for the afire of the anger of the Lord shall be kindled against them, and they shall be as stubble, and the day that cometh shall consume them, saith the Lord of Hosts.
aO the pain, and the anguish of my soul for the loss of the slain of my people!
For I, Nephi, have seen it, and it well nigh consumeth me before the presence of the Lord; but I must cry unto my God: Thy ways are bjust.
But behold, the righteous that hearken unto the words of the prophets, and destroy them not, but look forward unto Christ with asteadfastness for the signs which are given, notwithstanding all bpersecution—behold, they are they which shall cnot perish.
But the Son of Righteousness shall aappear unto them; and he shall bheal them, and they shall have cpeace with him, until dthree generations shall have passed away, and many of the efourth generation shall have passed away in righteousness.
And when these things have passed away a speedy adestruction cometh unto my people; for, notwithstanding the pains of my soul, I have seen it; wherefore, I know that it shall come to pass; and they sell themselves for naught; for, for the reward of their pride and their bfoolishness they shall reap destruction; for because they yield unto the devil and cchoose works of ddarkness rather than light, therefore they must go down to ehell.
For the Spirit of the Lord will not always astrive with man.
And when the Spirit bceaseth to strive with man then cometh speedy destruction, and this grieveth my soul.
And as I spake concerning the aconvincing of the bJews, that Jesus is the cvery Christ, it must needs be that the Gentiles be convinced also that Jesus is the Christ, the dEternal eGod; And that he amanifesteth himself unto all those who believe in him, by the power of the bHoly Ghost; yea, unto every nation, kindred, tongue, and people, working mighty cmiracles, signs, and wonders, among the children of men according to their dfaith.
But behold, I prophesy unto you concerning the alast days; concerning the days when the Lord God shall bbring these things forth unto the children of men.
After my seed and the seed of my brethren shall have adwindled in unbelief, and shall have been smitten by the Gentiles; yea, after the Lord God shall have bcamped against them round about, and shall have laid siege against them with a mount, and raised forts against them; and after they shall have been brought down low in the dust, even that they are not, yet the words of the righteous shall be written, and the cprayers of the faithful shall be heard, and all those who have ddwindled in unbelief shall not be forgotten.
For those who shall be destroyed shall aspeak unto them out of the ground, and their speech shall be low out of the dust, and their voice shall be as one that hath a familiar spirit; for the Lord God will give unto him power, that he may whisper concerning them, even as it were out of the ground; and their speech shall whisper out of the dust.
For thus saith the Lord God: They shall awrite the things which shall be done among them, and they shall be written and bsealed up in a book, and those who have dwindled in cunbelief shall not have them, for they dseek to destroy the things of God.
Wherefore, as those who have been destroyed have been destroyed speedily; and the multitude of their aterrible ones shall be as bchaff that passeth away—yea, thus saith the Lord God: It shall be at an instant, suddenly— And it shall come to pass, that those who have dwindled in unbelief shall be asmitten by the hand of the Gentiles.
And the Gentiles are lifted up in the apride of their eyes, and have bstumbled, because of the greatness of their cstumbling block, that they have built up many dchurches; nevertheless, they eput down the power and miracles of God, and preach up unto themselves their own wisdom and their own flearning, that they may get gain and ggrind upon the face of the poor.
And there are many churches built up which cause aenvyings, and bstrifes, and cmalice.
And there are also secret acombinations, even as in times of old, according to the combinations of the bdevil, for he is the founder of all these things; yea, the founder of murder, and cworks of darkness; yea, and he leadeth them by the neck with a flaxen cord, until he bindeth them with his strong cords forever.
For behold, my beloved brethren, I say unto you that the Lord God worketh not in adarkness.
He doeth not aanything save it be for the benefit of the world; for he bloveth the world, even that he layeth down his own life that he may draw call men unto him.
Wherefore, he commandeth none that they shall not partake of his salvation.
Behold, doth he cry unto any, saying: Depart from me?
Behold, I say unto you, Nay; but he saith: aCome unto me all ye bends of the earth, cbuy milk and honey, without money and without price.
Behold, hath he commanded any that they should adepart out of the synagogues, or out of the houses of worship?
Behold, I say unto you, Nay.
Hath he commanded any that they should not partake of his asalvation?
Behold I say unto you, Nay; but he hath bgiven it free for all men; and he hath commanded his people that they should persuade all men to crepentance.
Behold, hath the Lord commanded any that they should not partake of his goodness?
Behold I say unto you, Nay; but aall men are privileged the one blike unto the other, and none are forbidden.
He commandeth that there shall be no apriestcrafts; for, behold, priestcrafts are that men preach and set bthemselves up for a light unto the world, that they may get cgain and dpraise of the world; but they seek not the ewelfare of Zion.
Behold, the Lord hath forbidden this thing; wherefore, the Lord God hath given a commandment that all men should have acharity, which bcharity is clove.
And except they should have charity they were nothing.
Wherefore, if they should have charity they would not suffer the laborer in Zion to perish.
But the alaborer in bZion shall labor for Zion; for if they labor for cmoney they shall perish.
And again, the Lord God hath acommanded that men should not murder; that they should not lie; that they should not bsteal; that they should not take the name of the Lord their God in cvain; that they should not denvy; that they should not have emalice; that they should not contend one with another; that they should not commit fwhoredoms; and that they should do none of these things; for whoso doeth them shall perish.
For none of these iniquities come of the Lord; for he doeth that which is good among the children of men; and he doeth nothing save it be plain unto the children of men; and he ainviteth them ball to ccome unto him and partake of his goodness; and he ddenieth none that come unto him, black and white, ebond and free, male and female; and he remembereth the fheathen; and all are alike unto God, both Jew and Gentile.
 But, behold, in the alast days, or in the days of the Gentiles—yea, behold all the nations of the Gentiles and also the Jews, both those who shall come upon this land and those who shall be upon other lands, yea, even upon all the lands of the earth, behold, they will be bdrunken with iniquity and all manner of abominations— And when that day shall come they shall be avisited of the Lord of Hosts, with thunder and with earthquake, and with a great noise, and with storm, and with tempest, and with the bflame of devouring fire.
And all the anations that bfight against Zion, and that distress her, shall be as a dream of a night vision; yea, it shall be unto them, even as unto a hungry man which dreameth, and behold he eateth but he awaketh and his soul is empty; or like unto a thirsty man which dreameth, and behold he drinketh but he awaketh and behold he is faint, and his soul hath appetite; yea, even so shall the multitude of all the nations be that fight against Mount Zion.
For behold, all ye that doeth iniquity, stay yourselves and wonder, for ye shall cry out, and cry; yea, ye shall be adrunken but not with wine, ye shall stagger but not with strong drink.
For behold, the Lord hath poured out upon you the spirit of deep sleep.
For behold, ye have closed your aeyes, and ye have brejected the prophets; and your rulers, and the seers hath he covered because of your iniquity.
And it shall come to pass that the Lord God shall bring forth unto ayou the words of a bbook, and they shall be the words of them which have slumbered.
And behold the book shall be asealed; and in the book shall be a brevelation from God, from the beginning of the world to the cending thereof.
Wherefore, because of the things which are asealed up, the things which are sealed shall not be delivered in the day of the wickedness and abominations of the people.
Wherefore the book shall be kept from them.
But the book shall be delivered unto a man, and he shall deliver the words of the book, which are the words of those who have slumbered in the dust, and he shall deliver these words unto aanother; But the words which are asealed he shall not deliver, neither shall he deliver the book.
For the book shall be sealed by the power of God, and the revelation which was sealed shall be kept in the book until the own due time of the Lord, that they may come forth; for behold, they breveal all things from the foundation of the world unto the end thereof.
And the day cometh that the words of the book which were sealed shall be read upon the house tops; and they shall be read by the power of Christ; and all things shall be arevealed unto the children of men which ever have been among the children of men, and which ever will be even unto the end of the earth.
Wherefore, at that day when the book shall be delivered unto the man of whom I have spoken, the book shall be hid from the eyes of the world, that the eyes of none shall behold it save it be that athree bwitnesses shall behold it, by the power of God, besides him to whom the book shall be delivered; and they shall testify to the truth of the book and the things therein.
And there is anone other which shall view it, save it be a few according to the will of God, to bear testimony of his word unto the children of men; for the Lord God hath said that the words of the faithful should speak as if it were bfrom the dead.
Wherefore, the Lord God will proceed to bring forth the words of the book; and in the mouth of as many witnesses as seemeth him good will he establish his word; and wo be unto him that arejecteth the word of God!
But behold, it shall come to pass that the Lord God shall say unto him to whom he shall deliver the book: Take these words which are not sealed and deliver them to another, that he may show them unto the learned, saying: aRead this, I pray thee.
And the learned shall say: Bring hither the book, and I will read them.
And now, because of the glory of the world and to get again will they say this, and not for the glory of God.
And the man shall say: I cannot bring the book, for it is sealed.
Then shall the learned say: I cannot read it.
Wherefore it shall come to pass, that the Lord God will adeliver again the book and the words thereof to him that is not learned; and the man that is not learned shall say: I am not learned.
Then shall the Lord God say unto him: The learned shall not read them, for they have rejected them, and I am aable to do mine own work; wherefore thou shalt read the words which I shall give unto thee.
aTouch not the things which are sealed, for I will bring them forth in mine own due time; for I will show unto the children of men that I am able to do mine own work.
Wherefore, when thou hast read the words which I have commanded thee, and obtained the awitnesses which I have promised unto thee, then shalt thou seal up the book again, and hide it up unto me, that I may preserve the words which thou hast not read, until I shall see fit in mine own bwisdom to creveal all things unto the children of men.
For behold, I am God; and I am a God of amiracles; and I will show unto the bworld that I am the same yesterday, today, and forever; and I cwork not among the children of men save it be daccording to their faith.
And again it shall come to pass that the Lord shall say unto him that shall read the words that shall be delivered him: aForasmuch as this people draw near unto me with their mouth, and with their lips do bhonor me, but have removed their chearts far from me, and their fear towards me is taught by the dprecepts of men— Therefore, I will proceed to do a amarvelous work among this people, yea, a bmarvelous work and a wonder, for the cwisdom of their wise and dlearned shall perish, and the eunderstanding of their fprudent shall be hid.
And awo unto them that seek deep to hide their bcounsel from the Lord!
And their works are in the cdark; and they say: Who seeth us, and who knoweth us?
And they also say: Surely, your turning of things upside down shall be esteemed as the dpotter’s clay.
But behold, I will show unto them, saith the Lord of Hosts, that I eknow all their works.
For shall the work say of him that made it, he made me not?
Or shall the thing framed say of him that framed it, he had no understanding?
But behold, saith the Lord of Hosts: I will show unto the children of men that it is yet a very little while and Lebanon shall be turned into a fruitful field; and the afruitful field shall be esteemed as a forest.
aAnd in that day shall the bdeaf hear the words of the book, and the eyes of the blind shall see out of obscurity and out of darkness.
And the ameek also shall increase, and their bjoy shall be in the Lord, and the poor among men shall rejoice in the Holy One of Israel.
For assuredly as the Lord liveth they shall see that the aterrible one is brought to naught, and the scorner is consumed, and all that watch for iniquity are cut off; And they that make a man an aoffender for a word, and lay a snare for him that reproveth in the bgate, and cturn aside the just for a thing of naught.
Therefore, thus saith the Lord, who redeemed Abraham, concerning the house of Jacob: Jacob shall anot now be ashamed, neither shall his face now wax pale.
But when he aseeth his children, the work of my hands, in the midst of him, they shall sanctify my name, and sanctify the Holy One of Jacob, and shall fear the God of Israel.
They also that aerred in spirit shall come to understanding, and they that murmured shall blearn doctrine.
 And now, behold, my brethren, I have spoken unto you, according as the Spirit hath constrained me; wherefore, I know that they must surely come to pass.
And the things which shall be written out of the abook shall be of great bworth unto the children of men, and especially unto our seed, which is a cremnant of the house of Israel.
For it shall come to pass in that day that the achurches which are built up, and not unto the Lord, when the one shall say unto the other: Behold, I, I am the Lord’s; and the others shall say: I, I am the Lord’s; and thus shall every one say that hath built up bchurches, and not unto the Lord— And they shall contend one with another; and their priests shall contend one with another, and they shall teach with their alearning, and deny the bHoly Ghost, which giveth utterance.
And they adeny the bpower of God, the Holy One of Israel; and they say unto the people: Hearken unto us, and hear ye our precept; for behold there is cno God today, for the Lord and the Redeemer hath done his work, and he hath given his power unto men; Behold, hearken ye unto my precept; if they shall say there is a miracle wrought by the hand of the Lord, believe it not; for this day he is not a God of amiracles; he hath done his work.
Yea, and there shall be many which shall say: aEat, drink, and be merry, for tomorrow we die; and it shall be well with us.
And there shall also be many which shall say: aEat, drink, and be bmerry; nevertheless, fear God—he will cjustify in committing a little dsin; yea, elie a little, take the advantage of one because of his words, dig a fpit for thy neighbor; there is gno harm in this; and do all these things, for tomorrow we die; and if it so be that we are guilty, God will beat us with a few stripes, and at last we shall be saved in the kingdom of God.
Yea, and there shall be many which shall teach after this manner, afalse and vain and bfoolish cdoctrines, and shall be puffed up in their hearts, and shall seek deep to hide their counsels from the Lord; and their works shall be in the dark.
And the ablood of the saints shall cry from the ground against them.
Yea, they have all gone out of the away; they have become bcorrupted.
Because of apride, and because of bfalse teachers, and cfalse doctrine, their churches have become corrupted, and their churches are lifted up; because of pride they are puffed up.
They arob the bpoor because of their fine sanctuaries; they rob the poor because of their fine clothing; and they persecute the meek and the poor in heart, because in their cpride they are puffed up.
They wear astiff necks and high heads; yea, and because of pride, and wickedness, and abominations, and bwhoredoms, they have all cgone astray save it be a dfew, who are the humble followers of Christ; nevertheless, they are eled, that in many instances they do ferr because they are taught by the precepts of men.
O the awise, and the learned, and the rich, that are puffed up in the bpride of their chearts, and all those who preach dfalse doctrines, and all those who commit ewhoredoms, and pervert the right way of the Lord, fwo, wo, wo be unto them, saith the Lord God Almighty, for they shall be thrust down to hell!
Wo unto them that aturn aside the just for a thing of naught and brevile against that which is good, and say that it is of no worth!
For the day shall come that the Lord God will speedily visit the inhabitants of the earth; and in that day that they are cfully ripe in iniquity they shall perish.
But behold, if the inhabitants of the earth shall repent of their wickedness and abominations they shall not be destroyed, saith the Lord of Hosts.
But behold, that great and aabominable church, the bwhore of all the earth, must ctumble to the earth, and great must be the fall thereof.
For the kingdom of the devil must ashake, and they which belong to it must needs be stirred up unto repentance, or the bdevil will grasp them with his everlasting cchains, and they be stirred up to anger, and perish; For behold, at that day shall he arage in the bhearts of the children of men, and stir them up to anger against that which is good.
And others will he apacify, and lull them away into carnal bsecurity, that they will say: All is well in Zion; yea, Zion prospereth, all is well—and thus the cdevil dcheateth their souls, and leadeth them away carefully down to hell.
And behold, others he aflattereth away, and telleth them there is no bhell; and he saith unto them: I am no devil, for there is none—and thus he whispereth in their ears, until he grasps them with his awful cchains, from whence there is no deliverance.
Yea, they are grasped with death, and hell; and death, and hell, and the devil, and all that have been seized therewith must stand before the throne of God, and be ajudged according to their works, from whence they must go into the place prepared for them, even a blake of fire and brimstone, which is endless torment.
Therefore, wo be unto him that is at aease in Zion!
Wo be unto him that crieth: All is well!
Yea, wo be unto him that ahearkeneth unto the precepts of men, and denieth the power of God, and the gift of the Holy Ghost!
Yea, wo be unto him that saith: We have received, and we aneed no more!
And in fine, wo unto all those who tremble, and are aangry because of bthe truth of God!
For behold, he that is built upon the crock dreceiveth it with gladness; and he that is built upon a sandy foundation trembleth lest he shall fall.
Wo be unto him that shall say: We have received the word of God, and we aneed bno more of the word of God, for we have enough!
For behold, thus saith the Lord God: I will give unto the children of men line upon line, aprecept upon precept, here a little and there a little; and blessed are those who hearken unto my precepts, and lend an ear unto my counsel, for they shall learn bwisdom; for unto him that creceiveth I will give dmore; and from them that shall say, We have enough, from them shall be taken away even that which they have.
Cursed is he that putteth his atrust in man, or maketh flesh his arm, or shall hearken unto the bprecepts of men, save their precepts shall be given by the power of the Holy Ghost.
aWo be unto the Gentiles, saith the Lord God of Hosts!
For notwithstanding I shall lengthen out mine arm unto them from day to day, they will deny me; nevertheless, I will be merciful unto them, saith the Lord God, if they will repent and bcome unto me; for mine carm is lengthened out all the day long, saith the Lord God of Hosts.
 But behold, there shall be many—at that day when I shall proceed to do a amarvelous work among them, that I may remember my bcovenants which I have made unto the children of men, that I may set my hand again the csecond time to recover my people, which are of the house of Israel; And also, that I may remember the promises which I have made unto thee, Nephi, and also unto thy father, that I would remember your seed; and that the awords of your seed should proceed forth out of my mouth unto your seed; and my words shall bhiss forth unto the cends of the earth, for a dstandard unto my people, which are of the house of Israel; And because my words shall hiss forth—many of the Gentiles shall say: A aBible!
A Bible!
We have got a Bible, and there cannot be any more Bible.
But thus saith the Lord God: O fools, they shall have a aBible; and it shall proceed forth from the bJews, mine ancient covenant people.
And what cthank they the dJews for the Bible which they receive from them?
Yea, what do the Gentiles mean?
Do they remember the travails, and the labors, and the pains of the Jews, and their diligence unto me, in bringing forth salvation unto the Gentiles?
O ye Gentiles, have ye remembered the Jews, mine ancient covenant people?
Nay; but ye have acursed them, and have bhated them, and have not sought to recover them.
But behold, I will return all these things upon your own heads; for I the Lord have not forgotten my people.
Thou fool, that shall say: A aBible, we have got a Bible, and we need no more Bible.
Have ye obtained a Bible save it were by the Jews?
Know ye not that there are more anations than one?
Know ye not that I, the Lord your God, have created all men, and that I remember those who are upon the bisles of the sea; and that I rule in the heavens above and in the cearth beneath; and I bring forth my dword unto the children of men, yea, even upon all the nations of the earth?
Wherefore murmur ye, because that ye shall receive more of my word?
Know ye not that the atestimony of btwo nations is a cwitness unto you that I am God, that I remember one dnation like unto another?
Wherefore, I speak the same words unto one nation like unto another.
And when the two enations shall run together the testimony of the two nations shall run together also.
And I do this that I may prove unto many that I am the asame yesterday, today, and forever; and that I speak forth my bwords according to mine own pleasure.
And because that I have spoken one cword ye need not suppose that I cannot speak another; for my dwork is not yet finished; neither shall it be until the end of man, neither from that time henceforth and forever.
Wherefore, because that ye have a Bible ye need not suppose that it contains all my awords; neither bneed ye suppose that I have not caused more to be written.
For I command aall men, both in the east and in the west, and in the north, and in the south, and in the islands of the sea, that they shall bwrite the words which I speak unto them; for out of the cbooks which shall be written I will djudge the world, every man according to their works, according to that which is written.
For behold, I shall speak unto the aJews and they shall bwrite it; and I shall also speak unto the Nephites and they shall cwrite it; and I shall also speak unto the other tribes of the house of Israel, which I have led away, and they shall write it; and I shall also speak unto dall nations of the earth and they shall write it.
And it shall come to pass that the aJews shall have the words of the Nephites, and the Nephites shall have the words of the Jews; and the Nephites and the Jews shall have the words of the blost tribes of Israel; and the lost tribes of Israel shall have the words of the Nephites and the Jews.
And it shall come to pass that my people, which are of the ahouse of Israel, shall be gathered home unto the blands of their possessions; and my word also shall be gathered in cone.
And I will show unto them that fight against my word and against my dpeople, who are of the ehouse of Israel, that I am God, and that I fcovenanted with gAbraham that I would remember his hseed iforever.
 And now I speak unto you, Joseph, my alast-born.
Thou wast born in the wilderness of mine afflictions; yea, in the days of my greatest sorrow did thy mother bear thee.
And may the Lord consecrate also unto thee this aland, which is a most precious land, for thine inheritance and the inheritance of thy seed with thy brethren, for thy security forever, if it so be that ye shall keep the commandments of the Holy One of Israel.
And now, Joseph, my last-born, whom I have brought out of the wilderness of mine afflictions, may the Lord bless thee forever, for thy aseed shall not utterly be bdestroyed.
For behold, thou art the fruit of my loins; and I am a descendant of aJoseph who was carried bcaptive into Egypt.
And great were the ccovenants of the Lord which he made unto Joseph.
Wherefore, Joseph truly asaw our day.
And he obtained a bpromise of the Lord, that out of the fruit of his loins the Lord God would raise up a crighteous dbranch unto the house of Israel; not the Messiah, but a branch which was to be broken off, nevertheless, to be remembered in the covenants of the Lord that the Messiah should be made emanifest unto them in the latter days, in the spirit of power, unto the bringing of them out of fdarkness unto light—yea, out of hidden darkness and out of captivity unto freedom.
For Joseph truly testified, saying: A aseer shall the Lord my God raise up, who shall be a choice seer unto the fruit of my bloins.
Yea, Joseph truly said: Thus saith the Lord unto me: A choice aseer will I braise up out of the fruit of thy loins; and he shall be esteemed highly among the fruit of thy loins.
And unto him will I give commandment that he shall do a work for the fruit of thy loins, his brethren, which shall be of great worth unto them, even to the bringing of them to the cknowledge of the covenants which I have made with thy fathers.
And I will give unto him a commandment that he shall do anone other work, save the work which I shall command him.
And I will make him great in mine eyes; for he shall do my work.
And he shall be great like unto aMoses, whom I have said I would raise up unto you, to bdeliver my cpeople, O house of Israel.
And aMoses will I raise up, to deliver thy people out of the land of Egypt.
But a aseer will I raise up out of the fruit of thy loins; and unto him will I give bpower to cbring forth my word unto the seed of thy loins—and not to the bringing forth my word only, saith the Lord, but to the convincing them of my word, which shall have already gone forth among them.
Wherefore, the fruit of thy loins shall awrite; and the fruit of the loins of bJudah shall cwrite; and that which shall be written by the fruit of thy loins, and also that which shall be written by the fruit of the loins of Judah, shall grow together, unto the dconfounding of efalse doctrines and laying down of contentions, and establishing fpeace among the fruit of thy loins, and gbringing them to the hknowledge of their fathers in the latter days, and also to the knowledge of my covenants, saith the Lord.
And out of weakness he shall be made strong, in that day when my work shall commence among all my people, unto the restoring thee, O house of Israel, saith the Lord.
And thus prophesied Joseph, saying: Behold, that seer will the Lord bless; and they that seek to destroy him shall be confounded; for this promise, which I have obtained of the Lord, of the fruit of my loins, shall be fulfilled.
Behold, I am sure of the fulfilling of this promise; And his aname shall be called after me; and it shall be after the bname of his father.
And he shall be clike unto me; for the thing, which the Lord shall bring forth by his hand, by the power of the Lord shall bring dmy people unto esalvation.
Yea, thus prophesied Joseph: I am sure of this thing, even as I am sure of the promise of Moses; for the Lord hath said unto me, I will apreserve thy seed forever.
And the Lord hath said: I will raise up a Moses; and I will give power unto him in a rod; and I will give judgment unto him in writing.
Yet I will not loose his tongue, that he shall speak much, for I will not make him mighty in speaking.
But I will awrite unto him my law, by the finger of mine own hand; and I will make a bspokesman for him.
And the Lord said unto me also: I will raise up unto the fruit of thy loins; and I will make for him a spokesman.
And I, behold, I will give unto him that he shall write the writing of the fruit of thy loins, unto the fruit of thy loins; and the spokesman of thy loins shall declare it.
And the words which he shall write shall be the words which are expedient in my wisdom should go forth unto the afruit of thy loins.
And it shall be as if the fruit of thy loins had cried unto them bfrom the dust; for I know their faith.
And they shall acry from the bdust; yea, even repentance unto their brethren, even after many generations have gone by them.
And it shall come to pass that their cry shall go, even according to the simpleness of their words.
Because of their faith their awords shall proceed forth out of my mouth unto their brethren who are the fruit of thy loins; and the weakness of their words will I make strong in their faith, unto the remembering of my covenant which I made unto thy fathers.
And now, behold, my son Joseph, after this manner did my father of old aprophesy.
Wherefore, because of this covenant thou art ablessed; for thy seed shall not be destroyed, for they shall bhearken unto the words of the book.
And there shall rise up aone mighty among them, who shall do much good, both in word and in deed, being an instrument in the hands of God, with exceeding faith, to work mighty wonders, and do that thing which is great in the sight of God, unto the bringing to pass much brestoration unto the house of Israel, and unto the seed of thy brethren.
And now, blessed art thou, Joseph.
Behold, thou art little; wherefore hearken unto the words of thy brother, Nephi, and it shall be done unto thee even according to the words which I have spoken.
Remember the words of thy dying father.
Amen.
 And now behold, my beloved brethren, I would speak unto you; for I, Nephi, would not suffer that ye should suppose that ye are more righteous than the Gentiles shall be.
For behold, except ye shall keep the commandments of God ye shall all likewise aperish; and because of the words which have been spoken ye need not suppose that the Gentiles are utterly destroyed.
For behold, I say unto you that as many of the Gentiles as will repent are the acovenant people of the Lord; and as many of the bJews as will not repent shall be ccast off; for the Lord dcovenanteth with none save it be with them that erepent and believe in his Son, who is the Holy One of Israel.
And now, I would prophesy somewhat more concerning the Jews and the Gentiles.
For after the book of which I have spoken shall come forth, and be written unto the Gentiles, and sealed up again unto the Lord, there shall be many which shall abelieve the words which are written; and bthey shall carry them forth unto the cremnant of our seed.
And then shall the remnant of our seed know concerning us, how that we came out from Jerusalem, and that they are descendants of the Jews.
And the gospel of Jesus Christ shall be declared among athem; wherefore, bthey shall be restored unto the cknowledge of their fathers, and also to the knowledge of Jesus Christ, which was had among their fathers.
And then shall they rejoice; for they shall aknow that it is a blessing unto them from the hand of God; and their bscales of darkness shall begin to fall from their eyes; and many generations shall not pass away among them, save they shall be a pure and a cdelightsome people.
And it shall come to pass that the aJews which are scattered also shall bbegin to believe in Christ; and they shall begin to gather in upon the face of the land; and as many as shall believe in Christ shall also become a delightsome people.
And it shall come to pass that the Lord God shall commence his work among all nations, kindreds, tongues, and people, to bring about the arestoration of his people upon the earth.
And with righteousness shall the aLord God bjudge the poor, and reprove with equity for the cmeek of the earth.
And he shall smite the earth with the rod of his mouth; and with the breath of his lips shall he slay the wicked.
For the atime speedily cometh that the Lord God shall cause a great bdivision among the people, and the wicked will he cdestroy; and he will dspare his people, yea, even if it so be that he must edestroy the wicked by fire.
And arighteousness shall be the girdle of his loins, and faithfulness the girdle of his reins.
aAnd then shall the wolf dwell with the lamb; and the leopard shall lie down with the kid, and the calf, and the young lion, and the fatling, together; and a little child shall lead them.
And the cow and the bear shall feed; their young ones shall lie down together; and the lion shall eat straw like the ox.
And the sucking child shall play on the hole of the asp, and the weaned child shall put his hand on the cockatrice’s den.
They shall not hurt nor destroy in all my holy amountain; for the earth shall be full of the bknowledge of the Lord as the waters cover the sea.
Wherefore, the things of aall nations shall be made known; yea, all things shall be made bknown unto the children of men.
There is nothing which is secret save it shall be arevealed; there is no work of darkness save it shall be made manifest in the light; and there is nothing which is sealed upon the earth save it shall be loosed.
Wherefore, all things which have been revealed unto the children of men shall at that aday be revealed; and Satan shall have power over the hearts of the children of men bno more, for a long time.
And now, my beloved brethren, I make an end of my sayings.
 And now I, Nephi, make an end of my aprophesying unto you, my beloved brethren.
And I cannot write but a few things, which I know must surely come to pass; neither can I write but a few of the bwords of my brother Jacob.
Wherefore, the things which I have written sufficeth me, save it be a few words which I amust speak concerning the doctrine of Christ; wherefore, I shall speak unto you plainly, according to the plainness of my prophesying.
For my soul delighteth in aplainness; for after this manner doth the Lord God work among the children of men.
For the Lord God giveth light unto the bunderstanding; for he speaketh unto men according to their clanguage, unto their understanding.
Wherefore, I would that ye should remember that I have spoken unto you concerning that aprophet which the Lord showed unto me, that should baptize the bLamb of God, which should take away the sins of the world.
And now, if the Lamb of God, he being aholy, should have need to be bbaptized by water, to fulfil all righteousness, O then, how much more need have we, being unholy, to be cbaptized, yea, even by water!
And now, I would ask of you, my beloved brethren, wherein the Lamb of God did fulfil all righteousness in being baptized by water?
Know ye not that he was holy?
But notwithstanding he being holy, he showeth unto the children of men that, according to the flesh he humbleth himself before the Father, and witnesseth unto the Father that he would be aobedient unto him in keeping his commandments.
Wherefore, after he was baptized with water the Holy Ghost descended upon him in the aform of a bdove.
And again, it showeth unto the children of men the straitness of the path, and the narrowness of the agate, by which they should enter, he having set the bexample before them.
And he said unto the children of men: aFollow thou me.
Wherefore, my beloved brethren, can we bfollow Jesus save we shall be willing to keep the commandments of the Father?
And the Father said: Repent ye, repent ye, and be baptized in the name of my Beloved Son.
And also, the voice of the Son came unto me, saying: He that is baptized in my name, to him will the Father agive the Holy Ghost, like unto me; wherefore, bfollow me, and do the things which ye have seen me do.
Wherefore, my beloved brethren, I know that if ye shall afollow the Son, with full purpose of heart, acting no bhypocrisy and no deception before God, but with real cintent, repenting of your sins, witnessing unto the Father that ye are dwilling to take upon you the ename of Christ, by fbaptism—yea, by following your Lord and your Savior down into the water, according to his word, behold, then shall ye receive the Holy Ghost; yea, then cometh the gbaptism of fire and of the Holy Ghost; and then can ye speak with the htongue of angels, and shout praises unto the Holy One of Israel.
But, behold, my beloved brethren, thus came the voice of the Son unto me, saying: After ye have repented of your sins, and witnessed unto the Father that ye are willing to keep my commandments, by the baptism of water, and have received the baptism of fire and of the Holy Ghost, and can speak with a new tongue, yea, even with the tongue of angels, and after this should adeny me, it would have been bbetter for you that ye had not known me.
And I heard a voice from the Father, saying: Yea, the awords of my Beloved are true and faithful.
He that bendureth to the cend, the same shall be saved.
And now, my beloved brethren, I know by this that unless a man shall aendure to the end, in following the bexample of the Son of the living God, he cannot be saved.
Wherefore, do the things which I have told you I have seen that your Lord and your Redeemer should do; for, for this cause have they been shown unto me, that ye might know the gate by which ye should enter.
For the gate by which ye should enter is repentance and abaptism by water; and then cometh a bremission of your sins by fire and by the Holy Ghost.
And then are ye in this astrait and narrow bpath which leads to eternal life; yea, ye have entered in by the gate; ye have done according to the commandments of the Father and the Son; and ye have received the Holy Ghost, which cwitnesses of the dFather and the Son, unto the fulfilling of the promise which he hath made, that if ye entered in by the way ye should receive.
And now, my beloved brethren, after ye have gotten into this strait and narrow apath, I would ask if all is bdone?
Behold, I say unto you, Nay; for ye have not come thus far save it were by the word of Christ with unshaken cfaith in him, drelying wholly upon the merits of him who is mighty to esave.
Wherefore, ye must press forward with a asteadfastness in Christ, having a perfect brightness of bhope, and a clove of God and of all men.
Wherefore, if ye shall press forward, feasting upon the word of Christ, and dendure to the end, behold, thus saith the Father: Ye shall have eeternal life.
And now, behold, my beloved brethren, this is the away; and there is bnone other way nor cname given under heaven whereby man can be saved in the kingdom of God.
And now, behold, this is the ddoctrine of Christ, and the only and true doctrine of the eFather, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, which is fone God, without end.
Amen.
 And now, behold, my beloved brethren, I suppose that ye ponder somewhat in your hearts concerning that which ye should do after ye have entered in by the way.
But, behold, why do ye ponder these things in your hearts?
Do ye not remember that I said unto you that after ye had areceived the Holy Ghost ye could speak with the btongue of angels?
And now, how could ye speak with the tongue of angels save it were by the Holy Ghost?
aAngels speak by the power of the Holy Ghost; wherefore, they speak the words of Christ.
Wherefore, I said unto you, bfeast upon the cwords of Christ; for behold, the words of Christ will dtell you all things what ye should do.
Wherefore, now after I have spoken these words, if ye cannot understand them it will be because ye aask not, neither do ye knock; wherefore, ye are not brought into the light, but must perish in the dark.
For behold, again I say unto you that if ye will enter in by the way, and receive the Holy Ghost, it will ashow unto you all things what ye should do.
Behold, this is the doctrine of Christ, and there will be no more doctrine given until after he shall amanifest himself unto you in the flesh.
And when he shall manifest himself unto you in the flesh, the things which he shall say unto you shall ye observe to do.
And now I, Nephi, cannot say more; the Spirit stoppeth mine utterance, and I am left to mourn because of the aunbelief, and the wickedness, and the ignorance, and the bstiffneckedness of men; for they will cnot search dknowledge, nor understand great knowledge, when it is given unto them in eplainness, even as plain as word can be.
And now, my beloved brethren, I perceive that ye ponder still in your hearts; and it grieveth me that I must speak concerning this thing.
For if ye would hearken unto the aSpirit which teacheth a man to bpray, ye would know that ye must cpray; for the devil spirit teacheth not a man to pray, but teacheth him that he must not pray.
But behold, I say unto you that ye must apray always, and not faint; that ye must not perform any thing unto the Lord save in the first place ye shall bpray unto the Father in the cname of Christ, that he will dconsecrate thy performance unto thee, that thy performance may be for the ewelfare of thy soul.
 And now I, Nephi, cannot write all the things which were taught among my people; neither am I amighty in writing, like unto speaking; for when a man bspeaketh by the power of the Holy Ghost the power of the Holy Ghost carrieth it unto the hearts of the children of men.
But behold, there are many that aharden their bhearts against the cHoly Spirit, that it hath no place in them; wherefore, they cast many things away which are written and esteem them as things of naught.
But I, Nephi, have written what I have written, and I esteem it as of great aworth, and especially unto my people.
For I bpray continually for them by day, and mine ceyes water my pillow by night, because of them; and I cry unto my God in faith, and I know that he will hear my cry.
And I know that the Lord God will consecrate my prayers for the gain of my people.
And the words which I have written in weakness will be made strong unto them; for it apersuadeth them to do good; it maketh known unto them of their fathers; and it speaketh of Jesus, and persuadeth them to believe in him, and to endure to the end, which is life beternal.
And it speaketh aharshly against sin, according to the bplainness of the truth; wherefore, no man will be angry at the words which I have written save he shall be of the spirit of the devil.
I aglory in bplainness; I glory in truth; I glory in my Jesus, for he hath credeemed my soul from hell.
I have acharity for my people, and great faith in Christ that I shall meet many souls spotless at his judgment-seat.
I have charity for the aJew—I say Jew, because I mean them from whence I came.
I also have charity for the Gentiles.
But behold, for none of athese can I hope except they shall be breconciled unto Christ, and enter into the cnarrow dgate, and ewalk in the fstrait path which leads to life, and continue in the path until the end of the day of gprobation.
And now, my beloved brethren, and also aJew, and all ye ends of the earth, hearken unto these words and bbelieve in Christ; and if ye believe not in these words believe in Christ.
And if ye shall cbelieve in Christ ye will believe in these dwords, for they are the ewords of Christ, and he hath given them unto me; and they fteach all men that they should do good.
And if they are not the words of Christ, judge ye—for Christ will show unto you, with apower and great bglory, that they are his words, at the last day; and you and I shall stand face to face before his bar; and ye shall know that I have been commanded of him to write these things, notwithstanding my weakness.
And I pray the Father in the name of Christ that many of us, if not all, may be saved in his akingdom at that great and last day.
And now, my beloved brethren, all those who are of the house of Israel, and all ye ends of the earth, I speak unto you as the voice of one acrying from the dust: Farewell until that great day shall come.
And you that will not partake of the goodness of God, and respect the words of the aJews, and also my bwords, and the words which shall proceed forth out of the mouth of the Lamb of God, behold, I bid you an everlasting farewell, for these words shall ccondemn you at the last day.
For what I seal on earth, shall be brought against you at the ajudgment bar; for thus hath the Lord commanded me, and I must bobey.
Amen.
 And now, I, Nephi, speak concerning the prophecies of which my father hath spoken, concerning aJoseph, who was carried into Egypt.
For behold, he truly prophesied concerning all his seed.
And the aprophecies which he wrote, there are not many greater.
And he prophesied concerning us, and our future generations; and they are written upon the bplates of brass.
Wherefore, after my father had made an end of speaking concerning the prophecies of Joseph, he called the children of Laman, his sons, and his daughters, and said unto them: Behold, my sons, and my daughters, who are the sons and the daughters of my afirstborn, I would that ye should give ear unto my words.
For the Lord God hath said that: aInasmuch as ye shall keep my commandments ye shall prosper in the land; and inasmuch as ye will not keep my commandments ye shall be cut off from my presence.
But behold, my sons and my daughters, I cannot go down to my grave save I should leave a ablessing upon you; for behold, I know that if ye are bbrought up in the cway ye should go ye will not depart from it.
Wherefore, if ye are acursed, behold, I leave my blessing upon you, that the bcursing may be taken from you and be answered upon the cheads of your parents.
Wherefore, because of my blessing the Lord God will anot suffer that ye shall perish; wherefore, he will be bmerciful unto you and unto your seed forever.
And it came to pass that after my father had made an end of speaking to the sons and daughters of Laman, he caused the sons and daughters of Lemuel to be brought before him.
And he spake unto them, saying: Behold, my sons and my daughters, who are the sons and the daughters of my second son; behold I leave unto you the same blessing which I left unto the sons and daughters of Laman; wherefore, thou shalt not utterly be destroyed; but in the end thy seed shall be blessed.
And it came to pass that when my father had made an end of speaking unto them, behold, he spake unto the sons of aIshmael, yea, and even all his household.
And after he had made an end of speaking unto them, he spake unto Sam, saying: Blessed art thou, and thy aseed; for thou shalt inherit the land like unto thy brother Nephi.
And thy seed shall be numbered with his seed; and thou shalt be even like unto thy brother, and thy seed like unto his seed; and thou shalt be blessed in all thy days.
And it came to pass after my father, Lehi, had aspoken unto all his household, according to the feelings of his heart and the Spirit of the Lord which was in him, he waxed bold.
And it came to pass that he died, and was buried.
And it came to pass that not many days after his death, Laman and Lemuel and the sons of Ishmael were aangry with me because of the admonitions of the Lord.
For I, Nephi, was constrained to speak unto them, according to his word; for I had spoken many things unto them, and also my father, before his death; many of which sayings are written upon mine aother plates; for a more history part are written upon mine other plates.
And upon athese I bwrite the things of my soul, and many of the scriptures which are engraven upon the plates of brass.
For my soul cdelighteth in the scriptures, and my heart dpondereth them, and writeth them for the elearning and the profit of my children.
Behold, my asoul delighteth in the things of the Lord; and my bheart pondereth continually upon the things which I have seen and heard.
Nevertheless, notwithstanding the great agoodness of the Lord, in showing me his great and marvelous works, my heart exclaimeth: O bwretched man that I am!
Yea, my heart csorroweth because of my flesh; my soul grieveth because of mine iniquities.
I am encompassed about, because of the temptations and the sins which do so easily abeset me.
And when I desire to rejoice, my heart groaneth because of my sins; nevertheless, I know in whom I have atrusted.
My God hath been my asupport; he hath led me through mine bafflictions in the wilderness; and he hath preserved me upon the waters of the great deep.
He hath filled me with his alove, even unto the bconsuming of my flesh.
He hath confounded mine aenemies, unto the causing of them to quake before me.
Behold, he hath heard my cry by day, and he hath given me aknowledge by bvisions in the night-time.
And by day have I waxed bold in mighty aprayer before him; yea, my voice have I sent up on high; and angels came down and ministered unto me.
And upon the wings of his Spirit hath my body been acarried away upon exceedingly high mountains.
And mine eyes have beheld great things, yea, even too great for man; therefore I was bidden that I should not write them.
O then, if I have seen so great things, if the Lord in his condescension unto the children of men hath avisited men in so much bmercy, cwhy should my dheart weep and my soul linger in the valley of sorrow, and my flesh waste away, and my strength slacken, because of mine afflictions?
And why should I ayield to sin, because of my flesh?
Yea, why should I give way to btemptations, that the evil one have place in my heart to destroy my cpeace and afflict my soul?
Why am I dangry because of mine enemy?
Awake, my soul!
No longer adroop in sin.
Rejoice, O my heart, and give place no more for the benemy of my soul.
Do not aanger again because of mine enemies.
Do not slacken my strength because of mine afflictions.
Rejoice, O my aheart, and cry unto the Lord, and say: O Lord, I will praise thee forever; yea, my soul will rejoice in thee, my God, and the brock of my salvation.
O Lord, wilt thou aredeem my soul?
Wilt thou deliver me out of the hands of mine enemies?
Wilt thou make me that I may shake at the appearance of bsin?
May the gates of hell be shut continually before me, because that my aheart is broken and my spirit is contrite!
O Lord, wilt thou not shut the gates of thy righteousness before me, that I may bwalk in the path of the low valley, that I may be strict in the plain road!
O Lord, wilt thou encircle me around in the robe of thy arighteousness!
O Lord, wilt thou make a way for mine escape before mine benemies!
Wilt thou make my path straight before me!
Wilt thou not place a stumbling block in my way—but that thou wouldst clear my way before me, and hedge not up my way, but the ways of mine enemy.
O Lord, I have atrusted in thee, and I will btrust in thee forever.
I will not put my ctrust in the arm of flesh; for I know that cursed is he that putteth his dtrust in the arm of flesh.
Yea, cursed is he that putteth his trust in man or maketh flesh his arm.
Yea, I know that God will give aliberally to him that asketh.
Yea, my God will give me, if I bask cnot amiss; therefore I will lift up my voice unto thee; yea, I will cry unto thee, my God, the drock of my erighteousness.
Behold, my voice shall forever ascend up unto thee, my rock and mine everlasting God.
Amen.
 Behold, it came to pass that I, Nephi, did cry much unto the Lord my God, because of the aanger of my brethren.
But behold, their aanger did increase against me, insomuch that they did seek to take away my life.
Yea, they did murmur against me, saying: Our younger brother thinks to arule over us; and we have had much trial because of him; wherefore, now let us slay him, that we may not be afflicted more because of his words.
For behold, we will not have him to be our ruler; for it belongs unto us, who are the elder brethren, to brule over this people.
Now I do not write upon these plates all the words which they murmured against me.
But it sufficeth me to say, that they did seek to take away my life.
And it came to pass that the Lord did awarn me, that I, bNephi, should depart from them and flee into the wilderness, and all those who would go with me.
Wherefore, it came to pass that I, Nephi, did take my family, and also aZoram and his family, and Sam, mine elder brother and his family, and Jacob and Joseph, my younger brethren, and also my sisters, and all those who would go with me.
And all those who would go with me were those who believed in the bwarnings and the revelations of God; wherefore, they did hearken unto my words.
And we did take our tents and whatsoever things were possible for us, and did journey in the wilderness for the space of many days.
And after we had journeyed for the space of many days we did pitch our tents.
And my people would that we should call the name of the place aNephi; wherefore, we did call it Nephi.
And all those who were with me did take upon them to call themselves the apeople of Nephi.
And we did observe to keep the judgments, and the astatutes, and the commandments of the Lord in all things, according to the blaw of Moses.
And the Lord was with us; and we did aprosper exceedingly; for we did sow seed, and we did reap again in abundance.
And we began to raise flocks, and herds, and animals of every kind.
And I, Nephi, had also brought the records which were engraven upon the aplates of brass; and also the bball, or ccompass, which was prepared for my father by the hand of the Lord, according to that which is written.
And it came to pass that we began to prosper exceedingly, and to multiply in the land.
And I, Nephi, did take the asword of Laban, and after the manner of it did make many bswords, lest by any means the people who were now called Lamanites should come upon us and destroy us; for I knew their chatred towards me and my children and those who were called my people.
And I did teach my people to abuild buildings, and to bwork in all cmanner of wood, and of diron, and of copper, and of ebrass, and of steel, and of fgold, and of silver, and of precious ores, which were in great abundance.
And I, Nephi, did abuild a btemple; and I did construct it after the manner of the temple of cSolomon save it were not built of so many dprecious things; for they were not to be found upon the land, wherefore, it could not be built like unto Solomon’s etemple.
But the manner of the construction was like unto the temple of fSolomon; and the workmanship thereof was exceedingly fine.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, did cause my people to be aindustrious, and to blabor with their chands.
And it came to pass that they would that I should be their aking.
But I, Nephi, was desirous that they should have no king; nevertheless, I did for them according to that which was in my power.
And behold, the words of the Lord had been fulfilled unto my brethren, which he spake concerning them, that I should be their aruler and their teacher.
Wherefore, I had been their ruler and their bteacher, according to the commandments of the Lord, until the time they sought to take away my life.
Wherefore, the word of the Lord was fulfilled which he spake unto me, saying that: Inasmuch as they will anot hearken unto thy words they shall be bcut off from the presence of the Lord.
And behold, they were ccut off from his presence.
And he had caused the acursing to come upon them, yea, even a sore cursing, because of their iniquity.
For behold, they had hardened their hearts against him, that they had become like unto a flint; wherefore, as they were white, and exceedingly fair and bdelightsome, that they might not be centicing unto my people the Lord God did cause a dskin of eblackness to come upon them.
And thus saith the Lord God: I will cause that they shall be aloathsome unto thy people, save they shall repent of their iniquities.
And cursed shall be the seed of him that amixeth with their seed; for they shall be cursed even with the same cursing.
And the Lord spake it, and it was done.
And because of their acursing which was upon them they did become an bidle people, full of mischief and subtlety, and did seek in the wilderness for beasts of prey.
And the Lord God said unto me: They shall be a scourge unto thy seed, to astir them up in remembrance of me; and inasmuch as they will not remember me, and hearken unto my words, they shall scourge them even unto destruction.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, did aconsecrate Jacob and Joseph, that they should be bpriests and cteachers over the land of my people.
And it came to pass that we lived after the manner of ahappiness.
And thirty years had passed away from the time we left Jerusalem.
And I, Nephi, had kept the arecords upon my plates, which I had made, of my people thus far.
And it came to pass that the Lord God said unto me: aMake other plates; and thou shalt engraven many things upon them which are good in my sight, for the profit of thy people.
Wherefore, I, Nephi, to be obedient to the commandments of the Lord, went and made athese plates upon which I have engraven these things.
And I engraved that which is pleasing unto God.
And if my people are pleased with the things of God they will be pleased with mine engravings which are upon these plates.
And if my people desire to know the more particular part of the history of my people they must search mine aother bplates.
And it sufficeth me to say that forty years had passed away, and we had already had wars and contentions with our brethren.
 The awords of Jacob, the brother of Nephi, which he spake unto the people of Nephi: Behold, my beloved brethren, I, Jacob, having been called of God, and ordained after the manner of his holy aorder, and having been consecrated by my brother Nephi, unto whom ye look as a bking or a protector, and on whom ye depend for safety, behold ye know that I have spoken unto you exceedingly many things.
Nevertheless, I speak unto you again; for I am desirous for the awelfare of your souls.
Yea, mine anxiety is great for you; and ye yourselves know that it ever has been.
For I have exhorted you with all diligence; and I have taught you the words of my father; and I have spoken unto you concerning all things which are bwritten, from the creation of the world.
And now, behold, I would speak unto you concerning things which are, and which are to come; wherefore, I will read you the words of aIsaiah.
And they are the words which my brother has desired that I should speak unto you.
And I speak unto you for your sakes, that ye may learn and glorify the name of your God.
And now, the words which I shall read are they which Isaiah spake concerning all the house of Israel; wherefore, they may be alikened unto you, for ye are of the house of Israel.
And there are many things which have been spoken by Isaiah which may be likened unto you, because ye are of the house of Israel.
And now, these are the words: aThus saith the Lord God: Behold, I will lift up mine hand to the Gentiles, and set up my bstandard to the people; and they shall bring thy sons in their arms, and thy daughters shall be carried upon their shoulders.
And akings shall be thy nursing fathers, and their queens thy nursing mothers; they shall bow down to thee with their faces towards the earth, and lick up the dust of thy feet; and thou shalt know that bI am the Lord; for they shall not be ashamed that cwait for me.
And now I, Jacob, would speak somewhat concerning these words.
For behold, the Lord has shown me that those who were at aJerusalem, from whence we came, have been bslain and ccarried away captive.
Nevertheless, the Lord has shown unto me that they should areturn again.
And he also has shown unto me that the Lord God, the Holy One of Israel, should manifest himself unto them in the flesh; and after he should manifest himself they should bscourge him and ccrucify him, according to the words of the angel who spake it unto me.
And after they have ahardened their hearts and bstiffened their necks against the Holy One of Israel, behold, the cjudgments of the Holy One of Israel shall come upon them.
And the day cometh that they shall be smitten and afflicted.
Wherefore, after they are driven to and fro, for thus saith the angel, many shall be afflicted in the flesh, and shall not be suffered to aperish, because of the prayers of the faithful; they shall be scattered, and smitten, and hated; nevertheless, the Lord will be merciful unto them, that bwhen they shall come to the cknowledge of their Redeemer, they shall be dgathered together again to the elands of their inheritance.
And blessed are the aGentiles, they of whom the prophet has written; for behold, if it so be that they shall repent and fight not against Zion, and do not unite themselves to that great and babominable church, they shall be saved; for the Lord God will fulfil his ccovenants which he has made unto his children; and for this cause the prophet has written these things.
Wherefore, they that fight against Zion and the covenant people of the Lord shall lick up the dust of their feet; and the people of the Lord shall not be aashamed.
For the people of the Lord are they who bwait for him; for they still wait for the coming of the Messiah.
And behold, according to the words of the prophet, the Messiah will set himself again the asecond time to recover them; wherefore, he will bmanifest himself unto them in power and great glory, unto the cdestruction of their enemies, when that day cometh when they shall believe in him; and none will he destroy that believe in him.
And they that believe not in him shall be adestroyed, both by bfire, and by tempest, and by earthquakes, and by cbloodsheds, and by dpestilence, and by efamine.
And they shall know that the Lord is God, the Holy One of Israel.
aFor shall the prey be taken from the mighty, or the blawful captive delivered?
But thus saith the Lord: Even the captives of the mighty shall be taken away, and the prey of the terrible shall be delivered; afor the bMighty God shall cdeliver his covenant people.
For thus saith the Lord: I will contend with them that contendeth with thee— And I will feed them that oppress thee, with their own flesh; and they shall be drunken with their own blood as with sweet wine; and all flesh shall know that I the Lord am thy Savior and thy aRedeemer, the bMighty One of Jacob.
 aYea, for thus saith the Lord: Have I put thee away, or have I cast thee off forever?
For thus saith the Lord: Where is the bbill of your mother’s cdivorcement?
To whom have I put thee away, or to which of my dcreditors have I esold you?
Yea, to whom have I sold you?
Behold, for your iniquities have ye sold yourselves, and for your transgressions is your mother put away.
Wherefore, when I came, there was no man; when I acalled, yea, there was none to answer.
O house of Israel, is my hand shortened at all that it cannot redeem, or have I no power to deliver?
Behold, at my rebuke I bdry up the csea, I make their drivers a wilderness and their efish to stink because the waters are dried up, and they die because of thirst.
I clothe the heavens with ablackness, and I make bsackcloth their covering.
The Lord God hath given me the atongue of the learned, that I should know how to speak a word in season unto thee, O house of Israel.
When ye are weary he waketh morning by morning.
He waketh mine ear to hear as the learned.
The Lord God hath opened mine aear, and I was not rebellious, neither turned away back.
I gave my back to the asmiter, and my cheeks to them that plucked off the hair.
I hid not my face from bshame and spitting.
For the Lord God will help me, therefore shall I not be confounded.
Therefore have I set my face like a flint, and I know that I shall not be aashamed.
And the Lord is near, and he ajustifieth me.
Who will contend with me?
Let us stand together.
Who is mine adversary?
Let him come near me, and I will bsmite him with the strength of my mouth.
For the Lord God will help me.
And all they who shall acondemn me, behold, all they shall bwax old as a garment, and the moth shall eat them up.
Who is among you that feareth the Lord, that obeyeth the avoice of his servant, that bwalketh in darkness and hath no light?
Behold all ye that kindle fire, that compass yourselves about with sparks, walk in the light of ayour fire and in the sparks which ye have kindled.
bThis shall ye have of mine hand—ye shall lie down in sorrow.
 And now, my beloved brethren, I have read these things that ye might know concerning the acovenants of the Lord that he has covenanted with all the house of Israel— That he has spoken unto the Jews, by the mouth of his holy prophets, even from the beginning down, from generation to generation, until the time comes that they shall be arestored to the true church and fold of God; when they shall be bgathered home to the clands of their inheritance, and shall be established in all their lands of promise.
Behold, my beloved brethren, I speak unto you these things that ye may rejoice, and alift up your heads forever, because of the blessings which the Lord God shall bestow upon your children.
For I know that ye have searched much, many of you, to know of things to come; wherefore I know that ye know that our aflesh must waste away and die; nevertheless, in our bbodies we shall see God.
Yea, I know that ye know that in the body he shall show himself unto those at Jerusalem, from whence we came; for it is expedient that it should be among them; for it behooveth the great aCreator that he bsuffereth himself to become csubject unto man in the flesh, and ddie for eall men, that all men might become subject unto him.
For as adeath hath passed upon all men, to fulfil the merciful bplan of the great Creator, there must needs be a power of cresurrection, and the resurrection must needs come unto man by reason of the dfall; and the fall came by reason of etransgression; and because man became fallen they were fcut off from the gpresence of the Lord.
Wherefore, it must needs be an ainfinite batonement—save it should be an infinite atonement this corruption could not put on incorruption.
Wherefore, the cfirst judgment which came upon man must needs have dremained to an endless duration.
And if so, this flesh must have laid down to rot and to crumble to its mother earth, to rise no more.
O the awisdom of God, his bmercy and cgrace!
For behold, if the dflesh should rise no more our spirits must become subject to that angel who efell from before the presence of the Eternal God, and became the fdevil, to rise no more.
And our spirits must have become alike unto him, and we become devils, bangels to a cdevil, to be dshut out from the presence of our God, and to remain with the father of elies, in misery, like unto himself; yea, to that being who fbeguiled our first parents, who gtransformeth himself nigh unto an hangel of light, and istirreth up the children of men unto jsecret combinations of murder and all manner of secret works of darkness.
O how great the agoodness of our God, who prepareth a way for our bescape from the grasp of this awful monster; yea, that monster, cdeath and dhell, which I call the death of the body, and also the death of the spirit.
And because of the way of adeliverance of our God, the Holy One of Israel, this bdeath, of which I have spoken, which is the temporal, shall deliver up its dead; which death is the grave.
And this adeath of which I have spoken, which is the spiritual death, shall deliver up its dead; which spiritual death is bhell; wherefore, death and hell must cdeliver up their dead, and hell must deliver up its dcaptive espirits, and the grave must deliver up its captive fbodies, and the bodies and the gspirits of men will be hrestored one to the other; and it is by the power of the resurrection of the Holy One of Israel.
O how great the aplan of our God!
For on the other hand, the bparadise of God must deliver up the spirits of the righteous, and the grave deliver up the body of the righteous; and the spirit and the body is crestored to itself again, and all men become incorruptible, and dimmortal, and they are living souls, having a eperfect fknowledge like unto us in the flesh, save it be that our knowledge shall be perfect.
Wherefore, we shall have a aperfect bknowledge of all our cguilt, and our duncleanness, and our enakedness; and the righteous shall have a perfect knowledge of their enjoyment, and their frighteousness, being gclothed with hpurity, yea, even with the irobe of righteousness.
And it shall come to pass that when all men shall have passed from this first death unto life, insomuch as they have become immortal, they must appear before the ajudgment-seat of the Holy One of Israel; and then cometh the bjudgment, and then must they be judged according to the holy judgment of God.
And assuredly, as the Lord liveth, for the Lord God hath spoken it, and it is his eternal aword, which cannot bpass away, that they who are righteous shall be righteous still, and they who are cfilthy shall be dfilthy still; wherefore, they who are filthy are the edevil and his angels; and they shall go away into feverlasting fire, prepared for them; and their gtorment is as a hlake of fire and brimstone, whose flame ascendeth up forever and ever and has no end.
O the greatness and the ajustice of our God!
For he executeth all his words, and they have gone forth out of his mouth, and his law must be bfulfilled.
But, behold, the arighteous, the bsaints of the Holy One of Israel, they who have believed in the Holy One of Israel, they who have endured the ccrosses of the world, and despised the shame of it, they shall dinherit the ekingdom of God, which was prepared for them ffrom the foundation of the world, and their gjoy shall be full hforever.
O the greatness of the mercy of our God, the Holy One of Israel!
For he adelivereth his saints from that bawful monster the devil, and death, and chell, and that lake of fire and brimstone, which is endless torment.
O how great the aholiness of our God!
For he bknoweth call things, and there is not anything save he knows it.
And he cometh into the world that he may asave all men if they will hearken unto his voice; for behold, he suffereth the pains of all men, yea, the bpains of every living creature, both men, women, and children, who belong to the family of cAdam.
And he suffereth this that the resurrection might pass upon all men, that all might stand before him at the great and judgment day.
And he commandeth all men that they must arepent, and be bbaptized in his name, having perfect cfaith in the Holy One of Israel, or they cannot be saved in the kingdom of God.
And if they will not repent and believe in his aname, and be baptized in his name, and bendure to the end, they must be cdamned; for the Lord God, the Holy One of Israel, has spoken it.
Wherefore, he has given a alaw; and where there is bno claw given there is no dpunishment; and where there is no punishment there is no condemnation; and where there is no condemnation the mercies of the Holy One of Israel have claim upon them, because of the atonement; for they are delivered by the power of him.
For the aatonement satisfieth the demands of his bjustice upon all those who chave not the dlaw given to them, that they are edelivered from that awful monster, death and fhell, and the devil, and the lake of fire and brimstone, which is endless torment; and they are restored to that God who gave them gbreath, which is the Holy One of Israel.
But wo unto him that has the alaw given, yea, that has all the commandments of God, like unto us, and that btransgresseth them, and that cwasteth the days of his dprobation, for awful is his state!
O that cunning aplan of the evil one!
O the bvainness, and the frailties, and the cfoolishness of men!
When they are dlearned they think they are ewise, and they fhearken not unto the gcounsel of God, for they set it aside, supposing they know of themselves, wherefore, their hwisdom is foolishness and it profiteth them not.
And they shall perish.
But to be alearned is good if they bhearken unto the ccounsels of God.
But wo unto the arich, who are brich as to the things of the cworld.
For because they are rich they despise the dpoor, and they persecute the meek, and their ehearts are upon their treasures; wherefore, their ftreasure is their god.
And behold, their gtreasure shall perish with them also.
And wo unto the deaf that will not ahear; for they shall perish.
Wo unto the ablind that will not see; for they shall perish also.
Wo unto the auncircumcised of heart, for a knowledge of their iniquities shall smite them at the last day.
Wo unto the aliar, for he shall be thrust down to bhell.
Wo unto the amurderer who deliberately bkilleth, for he shall cdie.
Wo unto them who commit awhoredoms, for they shall be thrust down to hell.
Yea, wo unto those that aworship idols, for the devil of all devils delighteth in them.
And, in fine, wo unto all those who die in their asins; for they shall breturn to God, and behold his face, and remain in their sins.
O, my beloved brethren, remember the awfulness in atransgressing against that Holy God, and also the awfulness of yielding to the enticings of that bcunning one.
Remember, to be ccarnally-minded is ddeath, and to be espiritually-minded is flife geternal.
O, my beloved brethren, give ear to my words.
Remember the greatness of the Holy One of Israel.
Do not say that I have spoken hard things against you; for if ye do, ye will arevile against the btruth; for I have spoken the words of your Maker.
I know that the words of truth are chard against all duncleanness; but the erighteous fear them not, for they love the truth and are not shaken.
O then, my beloved brethren, acome unto the Lord, the Holy One.
Remember that his paths are righteous.
Behold, the bway for man is cnarrow, but it lieth in a straight course before him, and the keeper of the dgate is the Holy One of Israel; and he employeth no servant there; and there is none other way save it be by the gate; for he cannot be deceived, for the Lord God is his name.
And whoso aknocketh, to him will he open; and the bwise, and the learned, and they that are rich, who are puffed up because of their clearning, and their dwisdom, and their riches—yea, they are they whom he despiseth; and save they shall cast these things away, and consider themselves efools before God, and come down in the depths of fhumility, he will not open unto them.
But the things of the wise and the aprudent shall be bhid from them forever—yea, that happiness which is prepared for the saints.
O, my beloved brethren, remember my words.
Behold, I take off my garments, and I shake them before you; I pray the God of my salvation that he view me with his aall-searching eye; wherefore, ye shall know at the last day, when all men shall be judged of their works, that the God of Israel did witness that I bshook your iniquities from my soul, and that I stand with brightness before him, and am crid of your blood.
O, my beloved brethren, turn away from your sins; shake off the achains of him that would bind you fast; come unto that God who is the brock of your salvation.
Prepare your souls for that glorious day when ajustice shall be administered unto the righteous, even the day of bjudgment, that ye may not shrink with awful fear; that ye may not remember your awful cguilt in perfectness, and be constrained to exclaim: Holy, holy are thy judgments, O Lord God dAlmighty—but I know my guilt; I transgressed thy law, and my transgressions are mine; and the devil hath eobtained me, that I am a prey to his awful misery.
But behold, my brethren, is it expedient that I should awake you to an awful reality of these things?
Would I harrow up your souls if your minds were pure?
Would I be plain unto you according to the plainness of the truth if ye were freed from sin?
Behold, if ye were holy I would speak unto you of holiness; but as ye are not holy, and ye look upon me as a ateacher, it must needs be expedient that I bteach you the consequences of sin.
Behold, my soul abhorreth sin, and my heart adelighteth in righteousness; and I will bpraise the holy name of my God.
Come, my brethren, every one that athirsteth, come ye to the bwaters; and he that hath no cmoney, come buy and eat; yea, come buy wine and milk without money and without price.
Wherefore, do not spend money for that which is of no worth, nor your alabor for that which cannot bsatisfy.
Hearken diligently unto me, and remember the words which I have spoken; and come unto the Holy One of Israel, and cfeast upon that which perisheth not, neither can be corrupted, and let your soul delight in fatness.
Behold, my beloved brethren, remember the words of your God; pray unto him continually by day, and give athanks unto his holy name by night.
Let your hearts brejoice.
And behold how great the acovenants of the Lord, and how great his bcondescensions unto the children of men; and because of his greatness, and his cgrace and dmercy, he has promised unto us that our seed shall not utterly be destroyed, according to the flesh, but that he would epreserve them; and in future generations they shall become a righteous fbranch unto the house of Israel.
And now, my brethren, I would speak unto you more; but on the morrow I will declare unto you the remainder of my words.
Amen.
 Now it came to pass that the ninety and first year had passed away and it was asix hundred years from the time that Lehi left Jerusalem; and it was in the year that bLachoneus was the chief judge and the governor over the land.
And aNephi, the son of Helaman, had departed out of the land of Zarahemla, giving charge unto his son bNephi, who was his eldest son, concerning the cplates of brass, and dall the records which had been kept, and all those things which had been kept sacred from the departure of Lehi out of Jerusalem.
Then he adeparted out of the land, and bwhither he went, no man knoweth; and his son Nephi did keep the records in his stead, yea, the record of this people.
And it came to pass that in the commencement of the ninety and second year, behold, the prophecies of the prophets began to be fulfilled more fully; for there began to be agreater signs and greater miracles wrought among the people.
But there were some who began to say that the time was past for the words to be fulfilled, which were aspoken by Samuel, the Lamanite.
And they began to arejoice over their brethren, saying: Behold the time is past, and the words of Samuel are not fulfilled; therefore, your joy and your faith concerning this thing hath been vain.
And it came to pass that they did make a great uproar throughout the land; and the people who believed began to be very sorrowful, lest by any means those things which had been spoken might not come to pass.
But behold, they did watch steadfastly for athat day and that night and that day which should be as one day as if there were no night, that they might know that their faith had not been vain.
Now it came to pass that there was a day set apart by the aunbelievers, that all those who believed in those traditions should be bput to death except the csign should come to pass, which had been given by Samuel the prophet.
Now it came to pass that when Nephi, the son of Nephi, saw this wickedness of his people, his heart was exceedingly sorrowful.
And it came to pass that he went out and bowed himself down upon the earth, and cried mightily to his God in behalf of his people, yea, those who were about to be destroyed because of their faith in the tradition of their fathers.
And it came to pass that he cried mightily unto the Lord aall that day; and behold, the bvoice of the Lord came unto him, saying: Lift up your head and be of good cheer; for behold, the time is at hand, and on this night shall the asign be given, and on the bmorrow come I into the world, to show unto the world that I will fulfil all that which I have caused to be cspoken by the mouth of my holy prophets.
Behold, I acome unto my own, to bfulfil all things which I have made known unto the children of men from the cfoundation of the world, and to do the dwill, eboth fof the Father and of the Son—of the Father because of me, and of the Son because of my flesh.
And behold, the time is at hand, and this night shall the sign be given.
And it came to pass that the words which came unto Nephi were fulfilled, according as they had been spoken; for behold, at the going down of the asun there was bno darkness; and the people began to be astonished because there was no darkness when the night came.
And there were many, who had not believed the words of the prophets, who afell to the earth and became as if they were dead, for they knew that the great bplan of destruction which they had laid for those who believed in the words of the prophets had been frustrated; for the sign which had been given was already at hand.
And they began to know that the Son of God must shortly appear; yea, in fine, all the people upon the face of the whole earth from the awest to the east, both in the land north and in the land south, were so exceedingly astonished that they fell to the earth.
For they knew that the prophets had testified of these things for many years, and that the sign which had been given was already at hand; and they began to fear because of their iniquity and their unbelief.
And it came to pass that there was no darkness in all that night, but it was as light as though it was mid-day.
And it came to pass that the sun did rise in the morning again, according to its proper order; and they knew that it was the day that the Lord should be aborn, because of the bsign which had been given.
And it had come to pass, yea, all things, every whit, according to the words of the prophets.
And it came to pass also that a new astar did appear, according to the word.
And it came to pass that from this time forth there began to be alyings sent forth among the people, by Satan, to harden their hearts, to the intent that they might not believe in those bsigns and wonders which they had seen; but notwithstanding these lyings and deceivings the cmore part of the people did believe, and were converted unto the Lord.
And it came to pass that Nephi went forth among the people, and also many others, baptizing unto repentance, in the which there was a great aremission of sins.
And thus the people began again to have peace in the land.
And there were no contentions, save it were a few that began to preach, endeavoring to prove by the ascriptures that it was no more expedient to observe the law of Moses.
Now in this thing they did err, having not understood the scriptures.
But it came to pass that they soon became converted, and were convinced of the error which they were in, for it was made known unto them that the law was not yet afulfilled, and that it must be fulfilled in every whit; yea, the word came unto them that it must be fulfilled; yea, that one jot or tittle should not pass away till it should all be fulfilled; therefore in this same year were they brought to a knowledge of their error and did bconfess their faults.
And thus the ninety and second year did pass away, bringing aglad tidings unto the people because of the signs which did come to pass, according to the words of the prophecy of all the holy prophets.
And it came to pass that the ninety and third year did also pass away in peace, save it were for the Gadianton robbers, who dwelt upon the amountains, who did infest the land; for so strong were their holds and their secret places that the people could not overpower them; therefore they did commit many murders, and did do much slaughter among the people.
And it came to pass that in the ninety and fourth year they began to increase in a great degree, because there were many dissenters of the Nephites who did flee unto them, which did cause much sorrow unto those Nephites who did remain in the land.
And there was also a cause of much sorrow among the Lamanites; for behold, they had many children who did grow up and began to wax strong in years, that they became for themselves, and were aled away by some who were bZoramites, by their lyings and their flattering words, to join those Gadianton robbers.
And thus were the Lamanites afflicted also, and began to decrease as to their faith and righteousness, because of the wickedness of the arising generation.
 And now behold, it came to pass that all the people of the land did ahear these sayings, and did witness of it.
And after these sayings there was silence in the land for the space of many hours; For so great was the astonishment of the people that they did cease lamenting and howling for the loss of their kindred which had been slain; therefore there was silence in all the land for the space of many hours.
And it came to pass that there came a voice again unto the people, and all the people did hear, and did witness of it, saying: O ye people of these agreat cities which have fallen, who are descendants of Jacob, yea, who are of the house of Israel, how oft have I bgathered you as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, and have cnourished you.
And again, ahow oft would I have gathered you as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, yea, O ye people of the house of Israel, who have fallen; yea, O ye people of the house of Israel, ye that dwell at Jerusalem, as ye that have fallen; yea, how oft would I have gathered you as a hen gathereth her chickens, and ye would not.
O ye house of Israel whom I have aspared, how oft will I gather you as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, if ye will repent and breturn unto me with full purpose of cheart.
But if not, O house of Israel, the places of your dwellings shall become adesolate until the time of the fulfilling of the bcovenant to your fathers.
And now it came to pass that after the people had heard these words, behold, they began to weep and howl aagain because of the loss of their kindred and friends.
And it came to pass that thus did the three days pass away.
And it was in the morning, and the adarkness dispersed from off the face of the land, and the earth did cease to tremble, and the brocks did cease to rend, and the dreadful groanings did cease, and all the tumultuous noises did pass away.
And the earth did cleave together again, that it stood; and the amourning, and the weeping, and the wailing of the people who were spared alive did cease; and their mourning was turned into joy, and their lamentations into the bpraise and thanksgiving unto the Lord Jesus Christ, their Redeemer.
And thus far were the ascriptures bfulfilled which had been spoken by the prophets.
And it was the amore righteous part of the people who were saved, and it was they who received the prophets and stoned them not; and it was they who had not shed the blood of the saints, who were spared— And they were spared and were not sunk and buried up in the earth; and they were not drowned in the depths of the sea; and they were not burned by fire, neither were they fallen upon and crushed to death; and they were not carried away in the whirlwind; neither were they overpowered by the vapor of smoke and of darkness.
And now, whoso readeth, let him understand; he that hath the scriptures, let him asearch them, and see and behold if all these deaths and destructions by fire, and by smoke, and by btempests, and by whirlwinds, and by the copening of the earth to receive them, and all these things are not unto the fulfilling of the prophecies of many of the holy prophets.
Behold, I say unto you, Yea, many have testified of these things at the coming of Christ, and were aslain because they testified of these things.
Yea, the prophet aZenos did testify of these things, and also Zenock spake bconcerning these things, because they testified particularly concerning us, who are the remnant of their seed.
Behold, our father Jacob also testified concerning a aremnant of the seed of Joseph.
And behold, are not we a remnant of the seed of Joseph?
And these things which testify of us, are they not written upon the plates of brass which our father Lehi brought out of Jerusalem?
And it came to pass that in the ending of the thirty and fourth year, behold, I will show unto you that the people of Nephi who were spared, and also those who had been called aLamanites, who had been spared, did have great favors shown unto them, and great bblessings poured out upon their heads, insomuch that soon after the cascension of Christ into heaven he did truly manifest himself unto them— aShowing his body unto them, and ministering unto them; and an account of his ministry shall be given hereafter.
Therefore for this time I make an end of my sayings.
 And now it came to pass that there were a great multitude agathered together, of the people of Nephi, round about the temple which was in the land bBountiful; and they were marveling and wondering one with another, and were showing one to another the cgreat and marvelous change which had taken place.
And they were also conversing about this Jesus Christ, of whom the asign had been given concerning his death.
And it came to pass that while they were thus conversing one with another, they heard a avoice as if it came out of heaven; and they cast their eyes round about, for they understood not the voice which they heard; and it was not a harsh voice, neither was it a loud voice; nevertheless, and notwithstanding it being a bsmall voice it did cpierce them that did hear to the center, insomuch that there was no part of their frame that it did not cause to quake; yea, it did pierce them to the very soul, and did cause their hearts to burn.
And it came to pass that again they heard the voice, and they aunderstood it not.
And again the third time they did hear the voice, and did aopen their ears to hear it; and their eyes were towards the sound thereof; and they did look steadfastly towards heaven, from whence the sound came.
And behold, the third time they did understand the voice which they heard; and it said unto them: Behold my aBeloved Son, bin whom I am well pleased, in whom I have glorified my name—hear ye him.
And it came to pass, as they understood they cast their eyes up again towards heaven; and behold, they asaw a Man bdescending out of heaven; and he was clothed in a white robe; and he came down and stood in the midst of them; and the eyes of the whole multitude were turned upon him, and they durst not open their mouths, even one to another, and wist not what it meant, for they thought it was an angel that had appeared unto them.
And it came to pass that he stretched forth his hand and spake unto the people, saying: Behold, I am Jesus Christ, whom the prophets testified shall come into the world.
And behold, I am the alight and the life of the world; and I have drunk out of that bitter bcup which the Father hath given me, and have glorified the Father in ctaking upon me the sins of the world, in the which I have suffered the dwill of the Father in all things from the beginning.
And it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken these words the whole multitude afell to the earth; for they remembered that it had been bprophesied among them that Christ should cshow himself unto them after his ascension into heaven.
And it came to pass that the aLord spake unto them saying: Arise and come forth unto me, that ye may athrust your hands into my side, and also that ye may bfeel the prints of the nails in my hands and in my feet, that ye may know that I am the cGod of Israel, and the God of the whole dearth, and have been slain for the sins of the world.
And it came to pass that the multitude went forth, and thrust their hands into his side, and adid feel the prints of the nails in his hands and in his feet; and this they did do, going forth one by one until they had all gone forth, and did see with their eyes and did feel with their hands, and did know of a surety and did bear record, that it was he, of whom it was written by the prophets, that should come.
And when they had all gone forth and had witnessed for themselves, they did cry out with one accord, saying: Hosanna!
Blessed be the name of the Most High God!
And they did fall down at the feet of Jesus, and did aworship him.
And it came to pass that he spake unto aNephi (for Nephi was among the multitude) and he commanded him that he should come forth.
And Nephi arose and went forth, and abowed himself before the Lord and did bkiss his feet.
And the Lord commanded him that he should aarise.
And he arose and stood before him.
And the Lord said unto him: I give unto you apower that ye shall bbaptize this people when I am again ascended into heaven.
And again the Lord called aothers, and said unto them likewise; and he gave unto them power to baptize.
And he said unto them: On this wise shall ye baptize; and there shall be bno disputations among you.
Verily I say unto you, that whoso repenteth of his sins through your awords, and bdesireth to be baptized in my name, on this wise shall ye baptize them—Behold, ye shall go down and cstand in the water, and in my name shall ye baptize them.
And now behold, these are the words which ye shall say, calling them by name, saying: Having aauthority given me of Jesus Christ, I baptize you in the name of the bFather, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost.
Amen.
And then shall ye aimmerse them in the water, and come forth again out of the water.
And after this manner shall ye abaptize in my name; for behold, verily I say unto you, that the Father, and the Son, and the Holy Ghost are bone; and I am in the Father, and the Father in me, and the Father and I are one.
And according as I have commanded you thus shall ye baptize.
And there shall be no adisputations among you, as there have hitherto been; neither shall there be disputations among you concerning the points of my doctrine, as there have hitherto been.
For verily, verily I say unto you, he that hath the spirit of acontention is not of me, but is of the bdevil, who is the father of contention, and he stirreth up the hearts of men to contend with anger, one with another.
Behold, this is not my doctrine, to stir up the hearts of men with anger, one against another; but this is my doctrine, that such things ashould be done away.
Behold, verily, verily, I say unto you, I will declare unto you my adoctrine.
And this is my adoctrine, and it is the doctrine which the Father hath given unto me; and I bear brecord of the Father, and the Father beareth record of me, and the cHoly Ghost beareth record of the Father and me; and I bear record that the Father commandeth all men, everywhere, to repent and believe in me.
And whoso believeth in me, and is abaptized, the same shall be bsaved; and they are they who shall cinherit the kingdom of God.
And whoso believeth not in me, and is not abaptized, shall be damned.
Verily, verily, I say unto you, that this is my doctrine, and I bear record of it from the Father; and whoso abelieveth in me believeth in the Father also; and unto him will the Father bear record of me, for he will visit him bwith fire and with the cHoly Ghost.
And thus will the Father bear record of me, and the aHoly Ghost will bear record unto him of the Father and me; for the Father, and I, and the Holy Ghost are bone.
And again I say unto you, ye must repent, and abecome as a blittle child, and be baptized in my name, or ye can in nowise receive these things.
And again I say unto you, ye must repent, and be baptized in my name, and become as a little achild, or ye can in nowise inherit the kingdom of God.
Verily, verily, I say unto you, that this is my adoctrine, and whoso bbuildeth upon this buildeth upon my rock, and the cgates of hell shall not prevail against them.
And whoso shall adeclare more or less than this, and establish it for my doctrine, the same cometh of evil, and is not built upon my rock; but he buildeth upon a bsandy foundation, and the gates of hell stand open to receive such when the floods come and the winds beat upon them.
Therefore, go forth unto this people, and declare the words which I have spoken, unto the ends of the earth.
 aVerily, verily, I say that I would that ye should do alms unto the poor; but take heed that ye do not your alms before men to be seen of them; otherwise ye have no reward of your Father who is in heaven.
Therefore, when ye shall do your alms do not sound a trumpet before you, as will hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, that they may have aglory of men.
Verily I say unto you, they have their reward.
But when thou doest alms let not thy left hand know what thy right hand doeth; That thine alms may be in secret; and thy Father who seeth in secret, himself shall reward thee openly.
And when thou aprayest thou shalt not do as the bhypocrites, for they love to pray, standing in the synagogues and in the corners of the streets, that they may be seen of men.
Verily I say unto you, they have their reward.
But thou, when thou prayest, enter into thy closet, and when thou hast ashut thy door, pray to thy Father who is in secret; and thy Father, who bseeth in secret, shall reward thee openly.
But when ye pray, use not avain repetitions, as the bheathen, for they think that they shall be heard for their much speaking.
Be not ye therefore like unto them, for your Father aknoweth what things ye have need of before ye bask him.
After this amanner therefore bpray ye: Our cFather who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name.
Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven.
And forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors.
And alead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil.
For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, forever.
Amen.
For, if ye aforgive men their trespasses your heavenly Father will also forgive you; But if ye forgive not men their trespasses neither will your Father forgive your trespasses.
Moreover, when ye afast be not as the bhypocrites, of a sad countenance, for they disfigure their faces that they may appear unto men to fast.
Verily I say unto you, they have their reward.
But thou, when thou fastest, anoint thy head, and awash thy face; That thou appear not unto men to fast, but unto thy Father, who is in asecret; and thy Father, who seeth in secret, shall reward thee openly.
Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth, where amoth and rust doth corrupt, and thieves break through and steal; But lay up for yourselves atreasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do not break through nor steal.
For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.
The alight of the body is the beye; if, therefore, thine eye be csingle, thy whole body shall be full of light.
But if thine eye be evil, thy whole body shall be full of darkness.
If, therefore, the light that is in thee be darkness, how great is that darkness!
No man can aserve btwo masters; for either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will hold to the one and despise the other.
Ye cannot serve God and Mammon.
And now it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken these words he looked upon the atwelve whom he had chosen, and said unto them: Remember the words which I have spoken.
For behold, ye are they whom I have chosen to bminister unto this people.
Therefore I say unto you, ctake no thought for your life, what ye shall eat, or what ye shall drink; nor yet for your body, what ye shall put on.
Is not the life more than meat, and the body than draiment?
Behold the afowls of the air, for they sow not, neither do they reap nor gather into barns; yet your heavenly Father feedeth them.
Are ye not much better than they?
Which of you by taking thought can add one cubit unto his stature?
And why take ye thought for raiment?
Consider the alilies of the field how they grow; they toil not, neither do they spin; And yet I say unto you, that even Solomon, in all his glory, was not arrayed like one of these.
Wherefore, if God so clothe the grass of the field, which today is, and tomorrow is cast into the oven, even so will he clothe you, if ye are not of little faith.
Therefore take no thought, saying, What shall we eat?
or, What shall we drink?
or, Wherewithal shall we be clothed?
For your heavenly Father knoweth that ye have need of all these things.
But aseek ye first the bkingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you.
Take therefore no thought for the morrow, for the morrow shall take thought for the things of itself.
aSufficient is the day unto the evil thereof.
 aAnd now it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken these words he turned again to the multitude, and did open his mouth unto them again, saying: Verily, verily, I say unto you, Judge not, that ye be not judged.
aFor with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged; and with what measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you again.
And why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother’s eye, but considerest not the beam that is in thine own eye?
Or how wilt thou say to thy brother: Let me pull the mote out of thine eye—and behold, a beam is in thine own eye?
Thou ahypocrite, first cast the bbeam out of thine own eye; and then shalt thou see clearly to cast the mote out of thy brother’s eye.
Give not that which is aholy unto the dogs, neither cast ye your pearls before swine, lest they trample them under their feet, and turn again and rend you.
aAsk, and it shall be given unto you; bseek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you.
For every one that asketh, receiveth; and he that seeketh, findeth; and to him that knocketh, it shall be opened.
Or what man is there of you, who, if his son ask bread, will give him a stone?
Or if he ask a fish, will he give him a serpent?
If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your Father who is in heaven give good things to them that ask him?
Therefore, all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, ado ye even so to them, for this is the law and the prophets.
Enter ye in at the astrait gate; for wide is the gate, and bbroad is the way, which leadeth to destruction, and many there be who go in thereat; Because strait is the agate, and bnarrow is the way, which leadeth unto life, and cfew there be that find it.
Beware of afalse prophets, who come to you in sheep’s clothing, but inwardly they are ravening wolves.
Ye shall know them by their afruits.
Do men gather grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles?
Even so every agood tree bringeth forth good fruit; but a corrupt tree bringeth forth evil fruit.
A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit.
Every tree that abringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down, and cast into the fire.
Wherefore, by their afruits ye shall know them.
Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall aenter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my Father who is in heaven.
Many will asay to me in that day: Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name, and in thy name have cast out devils, and in thy name done many wonderful works?
And then will aI profess unto them: I never bknew you; cdepart from me, ye that work iniquity.
Therefore, whoso heareth these sayings of mine and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man, who built his house upon a arock— And the arain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it bfell not, for it was founded upon a rock.
And every one that heareth these sayings of mine and doeth them not shall be likened unto a afoolish man, who built his house upon the bsand— And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell, and great was the fall of it.
 And now it came to pass that when Jesus had ended these sayings he cast his eyes round about on the multitude, and said unto them: Behold, ye have heard the things which I ataught before I ascended to my Father; therefore, whoso remembereth these sayings of mine and bdoeth them, him will I craise up at the last day.
And it came to pass that when Jesus had said these words he perceived that there were some among them who marveled, and wondered what he would concerning the law of Moses; for they understood not the saying that aold things had passed away, and that all things had become new.
And he said unto them: Marvel not that I said unto you that old things had passed away, and that all things had become anew.
Behold, I say unto you that the alaw is fulfilled that was given unto Moses.
Behold, aI am he that gave the law, and I am he who covenanted with my people Israel; therefore, the law in me is fulfilled, for I have come to bfulfil the law; therefore it hath an end.
Behold, I do anot destroy the prophets, for as many as have not been fulfilled in me, verily I say unto you, shall all be fulfilled.
And because I said unto you that old things have passed away, I do not destroy that which hath been spoken concerning things which are to come.
For behold, the acovenant which I have made with my people is not all fulfilled; but the law which was given unto Moses hath an end in me.
Behold, I am the alaw, and the blight.
Look unto me, and endure to the end, and ye shall clive; for unto him that dendureth to the end will I give eternal life.
Behold, I have given unto you the acommandments; therefore keep my commandments.
And this is the law and the prophets, for they truly btestified of me.
And now it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken these words, he asaid unto those twelve whom he had chosen: Ye are my adisciples; and ye are a blight unto this people, who are a remnant of the house of cJoseph.
And behold, this is the aland of your inheritance; and the Father hath given it unto you.
And not at any time hath the Father given me commandment that I should atell it unto your brethren at Jerusalem.
Neither at any time hath the Father given me commandment that I should tell unto them concerning the aother tribes of the house of Israel, whom the Father hath led away out of the land.
This much did the Father acommand me, that I should tell unto them: That other sheep I have which are not of this fold; them also I must bring, and they shall hear my voice; and there shall be one fold, and one ashepherd.
And now, because of astiffneckedness and bunbelief they cunderstood not my word; therefore I was commanded to say no more of the dFather concerning this thing unto them.
But, verily, I say unto you that the Father hath commanded me, and I tell it unto you, that ye were aseparated from among them because of their iniquity; therefore it is because of their iniquity that they know not of you.
And verily, I say unto you again that the other tribes hath the Father separated from them; and it is because of their iniquity that they know not of them.
And verily I say unto you, that ye are they of whom I said: aOther sheep I have which are not of this fold; them also I must bring, and they shall hear my voice; and there shall be one fold, and one bshepherd.
And they understood me not, for they supposed it had been the aGentiles; for they understood not that the Gentiles should be bconverted through their preaching.
And they understood me not that I said they shall hear my voice; and they understood me not that the aGentiles should not at any time hear my voice—that I should not manifest myself unto them save it were by the bHoly Ghost.
But behold, ye have both heard amy voice, and seen me; and ye are my sheep, and ye are numbered among those whom the Father hath bgiven me.
 And verily, verily, I say unto you that I have aother sheep, which are not of this land, neither of the land of Jerusalem, neither in any parts of that land round about whither I have been to minister.
For they of whom I speak are they who have not as yet heard my voice; neither have I at any time manifested myself unto them.
But I have received a acommandment of the Father that I shall go unto them, and that they shall bhear my voice, and shall be numbered among my sheep, that there may be one fold and one shepherd; therefore I go to show myself unto them.
And I command you that ye shall awrite these sayings after I am gone, that if it so be that my people at Jerusalem, they who have seen me and been with me in my ministry, do not ask the Father in my name, that they may receive a knowledge of you by the Holy Ghost, and also of the other tribes whom they know not of, that these sayings which ye shall write shall be kept and shall be manifested unto the bGentiles, that through the fulness of the Gentiles, the remnant of their seed, who shall be scattered forth upon the face of the earth because of their cunbelief, may be brought in, or may be brought to a dknowledge of me, their Redeemer.
And then will I agather them in from the four quarters of the earth; and then will I fulfil the bcovenant which the Father hath made unto all the people of the chouse of Israel.
And blessed are the aGentiles, because of their belief in me, in and of the Holy Ghost, which bwitnesses unto them of me and of the Father.
Behold, because of their belief in me, saith the Father, and because of the unbelief of you, O house of Israel, in the alatter day shall the truth come unto the bGentiles, that the fulness of these things shall be made known unto them.
But wo, saith the Father, unto the aunbelieving of the Gentiles—for notwithstanding they have come forth upon the face of this land, and have bscattered my people who are of the house of Israel; and my people who are of the house of Israel have been ccast out from among them, and have been trodden under feet by them; And because of the mercies of the Father unto the Gentiles, and also the judgments of the Father upon my people who are of the house of Israel, verily, verily, I say unto you, that after all this, and I have caused my people who are of the house of Israel to be smitten, and to be afflicted, and to be aslain, and to be cast out from among them, and to become bhated by them, and to become a hiss and a byword among them— And thus commandeth the Father that I should say unto you: At that day when the Gentiles shall asin against my gospel, and shall reject the fulness of my gospel, and shall be blifted up in the pride of their hearts above all nations, and above all the people of the whole earth, and shall be filled with all manner of lyings, and of deceits, and of mischiefs, and all manner of hypocrisy, and cmurders, and dpriestcrafts, and whoredoms, and of secret abominations; and if they shall do all those things, and shall ereject the fulness of my gospel, behold, saith the Father, I will bring the fulness of my gospel from among them.
And then will I aremember my covenant which I have made unto my people, O house of Israel, and I will bring my gospel unto them.
And I will show unto thee, O house of Israel, that the Gentiles shall not have power over you; but I will remember my covenant unto you, O house of Israel, and ye shall come unto the aknowledge of the fulness of my gospel.
But if the Gentiles will repent and return unto me, saith the Father, behold they shall be anumbered among my people, O house of Israel.
And I will not suffer my people, who are of the house of Israel, to go through among them, and tread them down, saith the Father.
But if they will not turn unto me, and hearken unto my voice, I will suffer them, yea, I will suffer my people, O house of Israel, that they shall go through among them, and shall atread them down, and they shall be as salt that hath lost its savor, which is thenceforth good for nothing but to be cast out, and to be trodden under foot of my people, O house of Israel.
Verily, verily, I say unto you, thus hath the Father commanded me—that I should give unto athis people this land for their inheritance.
And then the awords of the prophet Isaiah shall be fulfilled, which say: aThy bwatchmen shall lift up the voice; with the voice together shall they sing, for they shall see eye to eye when the Lord shall bring again Zion.
Break forth into joy, sing together, ye waste places of Jerusalem; for the Lord hath comforted his people, he hath redeemed Jerusalem.
The Lord hath made bare his holy arm in the eyes of all the nations; and all the ends of the earth shall see the salvation of God.
 Behold, now it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken these words he looked round about again on the multitude, and he said unto them: Behold, my atime is at hand.
I aperceive that ye are weak, that ye cannot bunderstand all my words which I am commanded of the Father to speak unto you at this time.
Therefore, go ye unto your homes, and aponder upon the things which I have said, and ask of the Father, in my name, that ye may understand, and bprepare your minds for the cmorrow, and I come unto you again.
But now I ago unto the Father, and also to bshow myself unto the lost tribes of Israel, for they are not clost unto the Father, for he knoweth whither he hath taken them.
And it came to pass that when Jesus had thus spoken, he cast his eyes round about again on the multitude, and beheld they were ain tears, and did look steadfastly upon him as if they would ask him to tarry a little longer with them.
And he said unto them: Behold, my bowels are filled with acompassion towards you.
Have ye any that are asick among you?
Bring them hither.
Have ye any that are lame, or blind, or halt, or maimed, or bleprous, or that are withered, or that are deaf, or that are afflicted in any manner?
Bring them hither and I will cheal them, for I have compassion upon you; my bowels are filled with mercy.
For I perceive that ye desire that I should show unto you what I have done unto your brethren at Jerusalem, for I see that your afaith is bsufficient that I should heal you.
And it came to pass that when he had thus spoken, all the multitude, with one accord, did go forth with their sick and their afflicted, and their lame, and with their ablind, and with their dumb, and with all them that were afflicted in any manner; and he did heal them every one as they were brought forth unto him.
And they did all, both they who had been healed and they who were whole, bow down at his feet, and did worship him; and as many as could come for the multitude did akiss his feet, insomuch that they did bathe his feet with their tears.
And it came to pass that he commanded that their alittle children should be brought.
So they brought their little children and set them down upon the ground round about him, and Jesus stood in the midst; and the multitude gave way till they had all been brought unto him.
And it came to pass that when they had all been brought, and Jesus stood in the midst, he commanded the multitude that they should akneel down upon the ground.
And it came to pass that when they had knelt upon the ground, Jesus groaned within himself, and said: Father, I am atroubled because of the wickedness of the people of the house of Israel.
And when he had said these words, he himself also aknelt upon the earth; and behold he bprayed unto the Father, and the things which he prayed cannot be written, and the multitude did bear record who heard him.
And after this manner do they bear record: The aeye hath never seen, neither hath the ear heard, before, so great and marvelous things as we saw and heard Jesus speak unto the Father; And no atongue can speak, neither can there be written by any man, neither can the hearts of men conceive so great and marvelous things as we both saw and heard Jesus speak; and no one can conceive of the joy which filled our souls at the time we heard him pray for us unto the Father.
And it came to pass that when Jesus had made an end of praying unto the Father, he arose; but so great was the ajoy of the multitude that they were overcome.
And it came to pass that Jesus spake unto them, and bade them arise.
And they arose from the earth, and he said unto them: Blessed are ye because of your faith.
And anow behold, my joy is full.
And when he had said these words, he awept, and the multitude bare record of it, and he took their little children, one by one, and bblessed them, and prayed unto the Father for them.
And when he had done this he wept again; And he spake unto the multitude, and said unto them: Behold your little ones.
And as they looked to behold they cast their eyes towards heaven, and they saw the heavens open, and they saw angels descending out of heaven as it were in the midst of fire; and they came down and aencircled those little ones about, and they were encircled about with fire; and the angels did minister unto them.
And the multitude did see and ahear and bear record; and they know that their record is true for they all of them did see and hear, every man for himself; and they were in number about two thousand and five hundred souls; and they did consist of men, women, and children.
 And it came to pass that Jesus commanded his disciples that they should bring forth some abread and wine unto him.
And while they were gone for bread and wine, he commanded the multitude that they should sit themselves down upon the earth.
And when the disciples had come with abread and wine, he took of the bread and brake and blessed it; and he gave unto the disciples and commanded that they should eat.
And when they had eaten and were filled, he commanded that they should give unto the multitude.
And when the multitude had eaten and were filled, he said unto the disciples: Behold there shall one be aordained among you, and to him will I give power that he shall bbreak cbread and bless it and give it unto the people of my dchurch, unto all those who shall believe and be baptized in my name.
And this shall ye always observe to ado, even as I have done, even as I have broken bread and blessed it and given it unto you.
And this shall ye do in aremembrance of my bbody, which I have shown unto you.
And it shall be a testimony unto the Father that ye do always remember me.
And if ye do always remember me ye shall have my Spirit to be with you.
And it came to pass that when he said these words, he commanded his disciples that they should take of the awine of the cup and drink of it, and that they should also give unto the multitude that they might drink of it.
And it came to pass that they did so, and did drink of it and were filled; and they gave unto the multitude, and they did drink, and they were filled.
And when the disciples had done this, Jesus said unto them: Blessed are ye for this thing which ye have done, for this is fulfilling my commandments, and this doth witness unto the Father that ye are awilling to do that which I have commanded you.
And this shall ye always do to those who repent and are baptized in my name; and ye shall do it in aremembrance of my bblood, which I have shed for you, that ye may witness unto the Father that ye do always remember me.
And if ye do always remember me ye shall have my Spirit to be with you.
And I give unto you a commandment that ye shall do these things.
And if ye shall always do these things blessed are ye, for ye are built upon my arock.
But whoso among you shall do amore or less than these are not built upon my rock, but are built upon a sandy foundation; and when the rain descends, and the floods come, and the winds blow, and beat upon them, they shall bfall, and the cgates of hell are ready open to receive them.
Therefore blessed are ye if ye shall keep my commandments, which the Father hath commanded me that I should give unto you.
Verily, verily, I say unto you, ye must watch and apray always, lest ye be tempted by the devil, and ye be led away captive by him.
And as I have prayed among you even so shall ye pray in my achurch, among my people who do repent and are baptized in my name.
Behold I am the blight; I have set an cexample for you.
And it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken these words unto his disciples, he turned again unto the multitude and said unto them: Behold, verily, verily, I say unto you, ye must watch and pray always lest ye enter into temptation; for aSatan desireth to have you, that he may sift you as wheat.
Therefore ye must always pray unto the Father in my name; And awhatsoever ye shall ask the Father in my name, which is right, believing that ye shall receive, behold it shall be given unto you.
aPray in your families unto the Father, always in my name, that your wives and your children may be blessed.
And behold, ye shall ameet together oft; and ye shall not forbid any man from coming unto you when ye shall meet together, but suffer them that they may come unto you and forbid them not; But ye shall apray for them, and shall not cast them out; and if it so be that they come unto you oft ye shall pray for them unto the Father, in my name.
Therefore, hold up your alight that it may shine unto the world.
Behold I am the blight which ye shall hold up—that which ye have seen me do.
Behold ye see that I have prayed unto the Father, and ye all have witnessed.
And ye see that I have commanded that anone of you should go away, but rather have commanded that ye should come unto me, that ye might bfeel and see; even so shall ye do unto the world; and whosoever breaketh this commandment suffereth himself to be led into temptation.
And now it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken these words, he turned his eyes again upon the adisciples whom he had chosen, and said unto them: Behold verily, verily, I say unto you, I give unto you another commandment, and then I must go unto my aFather that I may fulfil bother commandments which he hath given me.
And now behold, this is the commandment which I give unto you, that ye shall not suffer any one knowingly to apartake of my flesh and blood bunworthily, when ye shall minister it; For whoso eateth and drinketh my flesh and ablood bunworthily eateth and drinketh damnation to his soul; therefore if ye know that a man is unworthy to eat and drink of my flesh and blood ye shall forbid him.
Nevertheless, ye shall not acast him out from among you, but ye shall bminister unto him and shall pray for him unto the Father, in my name; and if it so be that he repenteth and is baptized in my name, then shall ye receive him, and shall minister unto him of my flesh and blood.
But if he repent not he shall not be numbered among my people, that he may not destroy my people, for behold I aknow bmy sheep, and they are numbered.
Nevertheless, ye shall not cast him out of your asynagogues, or your places of worship, for unto such shall ye continue to minister; for ye know not but what they will return and repent, and come unto me with full purpose of heart, and I shall bheal them; and ye shall be the means of bringing salvation unto them.
Therefore, keep these sayings which I have commanded you that ye come not under acondemnation; for wo unto him whom the Father condemneth.
And I give you these commandments because of the disputations which have been among you.
And blessed are ye if ye have ano disputations among you.
And now I go unto the Father, because it is expedient that I should go unto the Father afor your sakes.
And it came to pass that when Jesus had made an end of these sayings, he touched with his ahand the bdisciples whom he had chosen, one by one, even until he had touched them all, and spake unto them as he touched them.
And the multitude heard not the words which he spake, therefore they did not bear record; but the disciples bare record that he gave them apower to give the bHoly Ghost.
And I will show unto you chereafter that this record is true.
And it came to pass that when Jesus had touched them all, there came a acloud and overshadowed the multitude that they could not see Jesus.
And while they were overshadowed he adeparted from them, and ascended into heaven.
And the disciples saw and did bear record that he ascended again into heaven.
 And now it came to pass that when Jesus had ascended into heaven, the multitude did disperse, and every man did take his wife and his children and did return to his own home.
And it was noised abroad among the people immediately, before it was yet dark, that the multitude had seen Jesus, and that he had ministered unto them, and that he would also show himself on the amorrow unto the multitude.
Yea, and even all the night it was noised abroad concerning Jesus; and insomuch did they send forth unto the people that there were many, yea, an exceedingly great number, did labor exceedingly all that night, that they might be on the morrow in the place where Jesus should show himself unto the multitude.
And it came to pass that on the morrow, when the multitude was gathered together, behold, Nephi and his abrother whom he had raised from the bdead, whose name was Timothy, and also his son, whose name was Jonas, and also Mathoni, and Mathonihah, his brother, and Kumen, and Kumenonhi, and Jeremiah, and Shemnon, and Jonas, and Zedekiah, and Isaiah—now these were the cnames of the ddisciples whom Jesus had chosen—and it came to pass that they went forth and stood in the midst of the multitude.
And behold, the multitude was aso great that they did cause that they should be separated into twelve bodies.
And the twelve did teach the multitude; and behold, they did cause that the multitude should akneel down upon the face of the earth, and should pray unto the Father in the name of Jesus.
And the disciples did pray unto the Father also in the name of Jesus.
And it came to pass that they arose and ministered unto the people.
And when they had ministered those same words which Jesus had spoken—nothing varying from the words which Jesus had spoken—behold, they knelt again and prayed to the Father in the name of Jesus.
And they did pray for that which they most desired; and they desired that the aHoly Ghost should be given unto them.
And when they had thus prayed they went down unto the water’s edge, and the multitude followed them.
And it came to pass that Nephi went down ainto the water and was bbaptized.
And he came up out of the water and began to baptize.
And he baptized all those whom Jesus had chosen.
And it came to pass when they were all baptized and had come aup out of the water, the bHoly Ghost did fall upon them, and they were filled with the Holy Ghost and with fire.
And behold, they were aencircled about as if it were by fire; and it came down from heaven, and the multitude did witness it, and did bear record; and angels did come down out of heaven and did minister unto them.
And it came to pass that while the angels were ministering unto the disciples, behold, Jesus came and stood in the midst and ministered unto them.
And it came to pass that he spake unto the multitude, and commanded them that they should kneel down again upon the earth, and also that his disciples should kneel down upon the earth.
And it came to pass that when they had all knelt down upon the earth, he commanded his disciples that they should pray.
And behold, they began to pray; and they did pray unto Jesus, calling him their Lord and their God.
And it came to pass that Jesus departed out of the midst of them, and went a little way off from them and abowed himself to the earth, and he said: Father, I thank thee that thou hast given the Holy Ghost unto these whom I have achosen; and it is because of their belief in me that I have chosen them out of the world.
Father, I pray thee that thou wilt give the Holy Ghost unto all them that shall believe in their words.
Father, thou hast given them the Holy Ghost because they believe in ame; and thou seest that they believe in me because thou hearest them, and they pray unto me; and they pray unto me because I am with them.
And now Father, I apray unto thee for them, and also for all those who shall believe on their words, that they may believe in me, that I may be in them bas thou, Father, art in me, that we may be cone.
And it came to pass that when Jesus had thus prayed unto the Father, he came unto his disciples, and behold, they did still continue, without ceasing, to pray unto him; and they did not amultiply many words, for it was given unto them what they should bpray, and they were filled with desire.
And it came to pass that Jesus blessed them as they did pray unto him; and his acountenance did smile upon them, and the light of his bcountenance did cshine upon them, and behold they were as dwhite as the countenance and also the garments of Jesus; and behold the whiteness thereof did exceed all the whiteness, yea, even there could be nothing upon earth so white as the whiteness thereof.
And Jesus said unto them: Pray on; nevertheless they did not cease to pray.
And he turned from them again, and went a little way off and bowed himself to the earth; and he prayed again unto the Father, saying: Father, I thank thee that thou hast apurified those whom I have chosen, because of their faith, and I pray for them, and also for them who shall believe on their words, that they may be purified in me, through faith on their words, even as they are purified in me.
Father, I pray not for the world, but for those whom thou hast given me aout of the world, because of their faith, that they may be purified in me, that I may be in them as thou, Father, art in me, that we may be one, that I may be glorified in them.
And when Jesus had spoken these words he came again unto his disciples; and behold they did pray steadfastly, without ceasing, unto him; and he did smile upon them again; and behold they were awhite, even as Jesus.
And it came to pass that he went again a little way off and prayed unto the Father; And tongue cannot speak the words which he prayed, neither can be awritten by man the words which he prayed.
And the multitude did hear and do bear record; and their ahearts were open and they did understand in their hearts the words which he prayed.
Nevertheless, so great and marvelous were the words which he prayed that they cannot be written, neither can they be auttered by man.
And it came to pass that when Jesus had made an end of praying he came again to the disciples, and said unto them: aSo great bfaith have I never seen among all the Jews; wherefore I could not show unto them so great cmiracles, because of their dunbelief.
Verily I say unto you, there are none of them that have seen so great things as ye have seen; neither have they heard so great things as ye have heard.
 And it came to pass that he commanded the multitude that they should acease to bpray, and also his disciples.
And he commanded them that they should not cease to pray in their hearts.
And he commanded them that they should arise and stand up upon their feet.
And they arose up and stood upon their feet.
And it came to pass that he abrake bbread again and blessed it, and gave to the disciples to eat.
And when they had eaten he commanded them that they should break bread, and give unto the multitude.
And when they had given unto the multitude he also gave them wine to drink, and commanded them that they should give unto the multitude.
Now, there had been no abread, neither wine, brought by the disciples, neither by the multitude; But he truly agave unto them bread to eat, and also wine to drink.
And he said unto them: He that eateth this bread eateth of amy body to his soul; and he that drinketh of this wine drinketh of my blood to his soul; and his soul shall never hunger nor thirst, but shall be filled.
Now, when the multitude had all eaten and drunk, behold, they were filled with the Spirit; and they did cry out with one voice, and gave glory to Jesus, whom they both saw and heard.
And it came to pass that when they had all given glory unto Jesus, he said unto them: Behold now I finish the commandment which the Father hath commanded me concerning this people, who are a remnant of the house of Israel.
Ye remember that I spake unto you, and said that when the awords of bIsaiah should be fulfilled—behold they are written, ye have them before you, therefore search them— And verily, verily, I say unto you, that when they shall be fulfilled then is the fulfilling of the acovenant which the Father hath made unto his people, O house of Israel.
And then shall the aremnants, which shall be bscattered abroad upon the face of the earth, be cgathered in from the east and from the west, and from the south and from the north; and they shall be brought to the dknowledge of the Lord their God, who hath redeemed them.
And the Father hath acommanded me that I should give unto you this bland, for your inheritance.
And I say unto you, that if the Gentiles do not arepent after the bblessing which they shall receive, after they have scattered my people— Then shall ye, who are a aremnant of the house of Jacob, go forth among them; and ye shall be in the midst of them who shall be many; and ye shall be among them as a lion among the beasts of the forest, and as a young blion among the flocks of sheep, who, if he goeth through both ctreadeth down and teareth in pieces, and none can deliver.
Thy hand shall be lifted up upon thine adversaries, and all thine enemies shall be cut off.
And I will agather my people together as a man gathereth his sheaves into the floor.
For I will make my apeople with whom the Father hath covenanted, yea, I will make thy bhorn iron, and I will make thy hoofs brass.
And thou shalt cbeat in pieces many people; and I will consecrate their gain unto the Lord, and their substance unto the Lord of the whole earth.
And behold, I am he who doeth it.
And it shall come to pass, saith the Father, that the asword of my justice shall hang over them at that day; and except they repent it shall fall upon them, saith the Father, yea, even upon all the nations of the Gentiles.
And it shall come to pass that I will establish my apeople, O house of Israel.
And behold, this apeople will I establish in this land, unto the fulfilling of the bcovenant which I made with your father Jacob; and it shall be a cNew Jerusalem.
And the dpowers of heaven shall be in the midst of this people; yea, even eI will be in the midst of you.
Behold, I am he of whom Moses spake, saying: aA prophet shall the Lord your God raise up unto you of your brethren, like unto me; him shall ye hear in all things whatsoever he shall say unto you.
And it shall come to pass that every soul who will not hear that prophet shall be cut off from among the people.
Verily I say unto you, yea, and aall the prophets from Samuel and those that follow after, as many as have spoken, have testified of me.
And behold, ye are the achildren of the prophets; and ye are of the house of Israel; and ye are of the bcovenant which the Father made with your fathers, saying unto Abraham: And cin thy seed shall all the kindreds of the earth be blessed.
The Father having raised me up unto you first, and sent me to abless you in bturning away every one of you from his iniquities; and this because ye are the children of the covenant— And after that ye were blessed then fulfilleth the Father the covenant which he made with Abraham, saying: aIn thy seed shall all the kindreds of the earth be blessed—unto the pouring out of the Holy Ghost through me upon the Gentiles, which bblessing upon the cGentiles shall make them mighty above all, unto the dscattering of my people, O house of Israel.
And they shall be a ascourge unto the people of this land.
Nevertheless, when they shall have received the fulness of my gospel, then if they shall harden their hearts against me I will return their biniquities upon their own heads, saith the Father.
And I will aremember the covenant which I have made with my people; and I have covenanted with them that I would bgather them together in mine own due time, that I would give unto them again the cland of their fathers for their inheritance, which is the land of Jerusalem, which is the promised land unto them forever, saith the Father.
And it shall come to pass that the time cometh, when the fulness of my gospel shall be preached unto them; And they shall abelieve in me, that I am Jesus Christ, the Son of God, and shall pray unto the Father in my name.
Then shall their awatchmen lift up their voice, and with the voice together shall they sing; for they shall see eye to eye.
Then will the Father gather them together again, and give unto them aJerusalem for the bland of their inheritance.
Then shall they break forth into joy—aSing together, ye waste places of Jerusalem; for the Father hath comforted his people, he hath redeemed Jerusalem.
The Father hath made bare his holy arm in the eyes of all the nations; and all the ends of the earth shall see the salvation of the Father; and the Father and I are one.
And then shall be brought to pass that which is written: aAwake, awake again, and put on thy strength, O Zion; put on thy beautiful garments, O Jerusalem, the holy city, for henceforth there shall no more come into thee the uncircumcised and the unclean.
Shake thyself from the dust; arise, sit down, O Jerusalem; loose thyself from the bands of thy neck, O captive daughter of Zion.
For thus saith the Lord: Ye have sold yourselves for naught, and ye shall be redeemed without money.
Verily, verily, I say unto you, that my people shall know my name; yea, in that day they shall know that I am he that doth speak.
And then shall they say: aHow beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him that bringeth good tidings unto them, that bpublisheth peace; that bringeth good tidings unto them of good, that publisheth salvation; that saith unto Zion: Thy God reigneth!
And then shall a cry go forth: aDepart ye, depart ye, go ye out from thence, touch not that which is bunclean; go ye out of the midst of her; be ye cclean that bear the vessels of the Lord.
For ye shall anot go out with bhaste nor go by flight; for the Lord will go before you, and the God of Israel shall be your rearward.
Behold, my servant shall deal prudently; he shall be exalted and extolled and be very high.
As many were astonished at thee—his visage was so marred, more than any man, and his form more than the sons of men— So shall he asprinkle many nations; the kings shall shut their mouths at him, for that which had not been told them shall they see; and that which they had not heard shall they bconsider.
Verily, verily, I say unto you, all these things shall surely come, even as the Father hath commanded me.
Then shall this covenant which the Father hath covenanted with his people be fulfilled; and then shall aJerusalem be inhabited again with my people, and it shall be the land of their inheritance.
 And then shall that which is written come to pass: Sing, O abarren, thou that didst not bear; break forth into bsinging, and cry aloud, thou that didst not travail with child; for more are the children of the cdesolate than the children of the married wife, saith the Lord.
Enlarge the place of thy tent, and let them stretch forth the curtains of thy habitations; spare not, lengthen thy cords and strengthen thy astakes; For thou shalt break forth on the right hand and on the left, and thy seed shall ainherit the bGentiles and make the desolate cities to be inhabited.
Fear not, for thou shalt not be ashamed; neither be thou confounded, for thou shalt not be put to ashame; for thou shalt forget the bshame of thy youth, and shalt not remember the creproach of thy youth, and shalt not remember the reproach of thy widowhood any more.
For thy maker, thy ahusband, the Lord of Hosts is his name; and thy Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel—the God of the whole earth shall he be called.
For the Lord hath called thee aas a woman forsaken and grieved in spirit, and a wife of youth, when thou wast refused, saith thy God.
For a small moment have I aforsaken thee, but with great mercies will I gather thee.
In a little wrath I hid my face from thee for a moment, but with everlasting akindness will I have bmercy on thee, saith the Lord thy Redeemer.
For athis, the bwaters of Noah unto me, for as I have sworn that the waters of Noah should no more go over the earth, so have I sworn that I would not be wroth with thee.
For the amountains shall depart and the hills be removed, but my bkindness shall not cdepart from thee, neither shall the covenant of my peace be removed, saith the Lord that hath mercy on thee.
O thou afflicted, tossed with tempest, and not comforted!
Behold, I will lay thy astones with fair colors, and lay thy foundations with sapphires.
And I will make thy windows of agates, and thy gates of carbuncles, and all thy borders of pleasant stones.
And aall thy children shall be taught of the Lord; and great shall be the bpeace of thy children.
In arighteousness shalt thou be established; thou shalt be far from oppression for thou shalt not fear, and from terror for it shall not come near thee.
Behold, they shall surely gather together aagainst thee, not by me; whosoever shall gather together against thee shall fall for thy sake.
Behold, I have created the smith that bloweth the coals in the fire, and that bringeth forth an instrument for his work; and I have created the waster to destroy.
No weapon that is formed against thee shall prosper; and every tongue that shall revile against thee in judgment thou shalt condemn.
This is the heritage of the aservants of the Lord, and their righteousness is of me, saith the Lord.
 And now, behold, I say unto you, that ye ought to asearch these things.
Yea, a commandment I give unto you that ye search these things diligently; for great are the words of bIsaiah.
For surely he spake as touching all things concerning my people which are of the house of Israel; atherefore it must needs be that he must speak also to the Gentiles.
And all things that he spake have been and ashall be, even according to the words which he spake.
Therefore give heed to my words; write the things which I have told you; and according to the time and the will of the Father athey shall go forth unto the Gentiles.
And whosoever will hearken unto my words and repenteth and is baptized, the same shall be saved.
Search the aprophets, for many there be that testify of these things.
And now it came to pass that when Jesus had said these words he said unto them again, after he had expounded all the scriptures unto them which they had received, he said unto them: Behold, other scriptures I would that ye should write, that ye have not.
And it came to pass that he said unto aNephi: Bring forth the record which ye have kept.
And when Nephi had brought forth the records, and laid them before him, he cast his eyes upon them and said: Verily I say unto you, I commanded my servant aSamuel, the Lamanite, that he should testify unto this people, that at the day that the Father should glorify his name in me that there were bmany csaints who should darise from the dead, and should appear unto many, and should minister unto them.
And he said unto them: Was it not so?
And his disciples answered him and said: Yea, Lord, Samuel did prophesy according to thy words, and they were all fulfilled.
And Jesus said unto them: How be it that ye have not awritten this thing, that many bsaints did arise and appear unto many and did minister unto them?
And it came to pass that Nephi remembered that this thing had not been written.
And it came to pass that Jesus commanded that it should be awritten; therefore it was written according as he commanded.
And now it came to pass that when Jesus had aexpounded all the scriptures in one, which they had written, he commanded them that they should bteach the things which he had expounded unto them.
 And it came to pass that he commanded them that they should write the words which the Father had given unto Malachi, which he should tell unto them.
And it came to pass that after they were written he expounded them.
And these are the words which he did tell unto them, saying: Thus said the Father unto Malachi—Behold, I will asend my bmessenger, and he shall prepare the way before me, and the Lord whom ye seek shall suddenly ccome to his temple, even the dmessenger of the covenant, whom ye delight in; behold, he shall come, saith the Lord of Hosts.
But who may aabide the day of his coming, and who shall stand when he appeareth?
For he is like a brefiner’s fire, and like fuller’s soap.
And he shall sit as a refiner and purifier of silver; and he shall apurify the bsons of Levi, and purge them as gold and silver, that they may coffer unto the Lord an offering in righteousness.
Then shall the offering of Judah and Jerusalem be pleasant unto the Lord, as in the days of old, and as in former years.
And I will come anear to you to judgment; and I will be a swift witness against the bsorcerers, and against the adulterers, and against false cswearers, and against those that doppress the hireling in his wages, the widow and the efatherless, and that turn aside the fstranger, and fear not me, saith the Lord of Hosts.
For aI am the Lord, I change not; therefore ye sons of Jacob are not consumed.
Even from the days of your fathers ye are gone away from mine aordinances, and have not kept them.
bReturn unto me and I will return unto you, saith the Lord of Hosts.
But ye say: Wherein shall we return?
Will a man rob God?
Yet ye have robbed me.
But ye say: Wherein have we robbed thee?
In atithes and bofferings.
Ye are cursed with a curse, for ye have robbed me, even this whole nation.
Bring ye all the atithes into the storehouse, that there may be bmeat in my house; and prove me now herewith, saith the Lord of Hosts, if I will not open you the cwindows of heaven, and pour you out a dblessing that there shall not be room enough to receive it.
And I will rebuke the adevourer for your sakes, and he shall not destroy the fruits of your ground; neither shall your vine cast her fruit before the time in the fields, saith the Lord of Hosts.
And all nations shall call you blessed, for ye shall be a delightsome land, saith the Lord of Hosts.
Your words have been stout against me, saith the Lord.
Yet ye say: What have we spoken against thee?
Ye have asaid: It is bvain to serve God, and what doth it profit that we have kept his cordinances and that we have walked mournfully before the Lord of Hosts?
And now we call the proud happy; yea, they that work wickedness are set up; yea, they that tempt God are even delivered.
Then they that feared the Lord aspake often one to another, and the Lord hearkened and heard; and a book of bremembrance was written before him for them that feared the Lord, and that thought upon his name.
And they shall be amine, saith the Lord of Hosts, in that day when I bmake up my jewels; and I will spare them as a man spareth his own son that serveth him.
Then shall ye return and adiscern between the righteous and the wicked, between him that serveth God and him that serveth him not.
 aFor behold, the day cometh that shall bburn as an oven; and all the cproud, yea, and all that do wickedly, shall be stubble; and the day that cometh shall burn them up, saith the Lord of Hosts, that it shall leave them neither root nor branch.
But unto you that fear my name, shall the aSon of Righteousness arise with healing in his wings; and ye shall go forth and bgrow up as ccalves in the stall.
And ye shall atread down the wicked; for they shall be ashes under the soles of your feet in the day that I shall do this, saith the Lord of Hosts.
Remember ye the law of Moses, my servant, which I commanded unto him in aHoreb for all Israel, with the statutes and judgments.
Behold, I will send you aElijah the prophet before the coming of the great and dreadful bday of the Lord; And he shall aturn the heart of the bfathers to the children, and the heart of the children to their fathers, lest I come and csmite the earth with a curse.
 And now it came to pass that when Jesus had told these things he expounded them unto the multitude; and he did expound all things unto them, both great and small.
And he saith: aThese scriptures, which ye had not with you, the Father commanded that I should give unto you; for it was wisdom in him that they should be given unto future generations.
And he did expound all things, even from the beginning until the atime that he should come in his bglory—yea, even all things which should come upon the face of the earth, even until the celements should melt with fervent heat, and the earth should be dwrapt together as a scroll, and the heavens and the earth should pass away; And even unto the agreat and last day, when all people, and all kindreds, and all nations and tongues shall bstand before God, to be judged of their works, whether they be good or whether they be evil— If they be good, to the aresurrection of everlasting life; and if they be evil, to the resurrection of damnation; being on a parallel, the one on the one hand and the other on the other hand, according to the mercy, and the bjustice, and the holiness which is in Christ, who was cbefore the world began.
And now there cannot be written in this book even a ahundredth part of the things which Jesus did truly teach unto the people; But behold the aplates of Nephi do contain the more part of the things which he taught the people.
And these things have I written, which are a alesser part of the things which he taught the people; and I have written them to the intent that they may be brought again unto this people, bfrom the Gentiles, according to the words which Jesus hath spoken.
And when they shall have received this, which is expedient that they should have first, to try their faith, and if it shall so be that they shall believe these things then shall the agreater things be made manifest unto them.
And if it so be that they will not believe these things, then shall the agreater things be bwithheld from them, unto their condemnation.
Behold, I was about to write them, all which were engraven upon the plates of Nephi, but the Lord aforbade it, saying: I will btry the faith of my people.
Therefore I, aMormon, do write the things which have been commanded me of the Lord.
And now I, bMormon, make an end of my sayings, and proceed to write the things which have been commanded me.
Therefore, I would that ye should behold that the Lord truly did teach the people, for the space of three days; and after that he did ashow himself unto them oft, and did break bbread oft, and bless it, and give it unto them.
And it came to pass that he did teach and minister unto the achildren of the multitude of whom hath been spoken, and he did bloose their ctongues, and they did speak unto their fathers great and marvelous things, even greater than he had revealed unto the people; and he loosed their tongues that they could utter.
And it came to pass that after he had ascended into heaven—the second time that he showed himself unto them, and had gone unto the Father, after having ahealed all their sick, and their lame, and opened the eyes of their blind and unstopped the ears of the deaf, and even had done all manner of cures among them, and raised a man from the bdead, and had shown forth his power unto them, and had ascended unto the Father— Behold, it came to pass on the morrow that the multitude gathered themselves together, and they both saw and heard these children; yea, even ababes did open their mouths and utter marvelous things; and the things which they did utter were bforbidden that there should not any man write them.
And it came to pass that the adisciples whom Jesus had chosen began bfrom that time forth to cbaptize and to teach as many as did come unto them; and as many as were baptized in the name of Jesus were filled with the Holy Ghost.
And many of them saw and heard unspeakable things, which are anot lawful to be written.
And they taught, and did aminister one to another; and they had ball things ccommon among them, every man dealing justly, one with another.
And it came to pass that they did do all things even as Jesus had commanded them.
And they who were baptized in the name of Jesus were called the achurch of Christ.
 And now behold, I say unto you that when the Lord shall see fit, in his wisdom, that these sayings shall acome unto the Gentiles according to his word, then ye may know that the bcovenant which the Father hath made with the children of Israel, concerning their restoration to the clands of their inheritance, is already beginning to be fulfilled.
And ye may know that the words of the Lord, which have been spoken by the holy prophets, shall all be fulfilled; and ye need not say that the Lord adelays his coming unto the children of Israel.
And ye need not imagine in your hearts that the words which have been spoken are vain, for behold, the Lord will remember his covenant which he hath made unto his people of the house of Israel.
And when ye shall see these sayings coming forth among you, then ye need not any longer spurn at the doings of the Lord, for the asword of his bjustice is in his right hand; and behold, at that day, if ye shall spurn at his doings he will cause that it shall soon overtake you.
aWo unto him that bspurneth at the doings of the Lord; yea, wo unto him that shall cdeny the Christ and his works!
Yea, awo unto him that shall deny the revelations of the Lord, and that shall say the Lord no longer worketh by revelation, or by prophecy, or by bgifts, or by tongues, or by healings, or by the power of the Holy Ghost!
Yea, and wo unto him that shall say at that day, to get again, that there can be bno miracle wrought by Jesus Christ; for he that doeth this shall become clike unto the son of perdition, for whom there was no mercy, according to the word of Christ!
Yea, and ye need not any longer ahiss, nor bspurn, nor make game of the cJews, nor any of the remnant of the house of Israel; for behold, the Lord remembereth his covenant unto them, and he will do unto them according to that which he hath sworn.
Therefore ye need not suppose that ye can turn the right hand of the Lord unto the left, that he may not execute judgment unto the fulfilling of the covenant which he hath made unto the house of Israel.
 And now it came to pass that in the sixteenth year from the coming of Christ, aLachoneus, the governor of the land, received an epistle from the leader and the governor of this band of robbers; and these were the words which were written, saying: Lachoneus, most noble and chief governor of the land, behold, I write this epistle unto you, and do give unto you exceedingly great praise because of your firmness, and also the firmness of your people, in amaintaining that which ye suppose to be your right and bliberty; yea, ye do stand well, as if ye were supported by the hand of a god, in the defence of your liberty, and your property, and your country, or that which ye do call so.
And it seemeth a pity unto me, most noble Lachoneus, that ye should be so foolish and vain as to suppose that ye can stand against so many brave men who are at my command, who do now at this time stand in their arms, and do await with great anxiety for the word—Go down upon the Nephites and adestroy them.
And I, knowing of their unconquerable spirit, having proved them in the field of battle, and knowing of their everlasting hatred towards you because of the many wrongs which ye have done unto them, therefore if they should come down against you they would visit you with utter destruction.
Therefore I have written this epistle, sealing it with mine own hand, feeling for your welfare, because of your firmness in that which ye believe to be right, and your noble spirit in the field of battle.
Therefore I write unto you, desiring that ye would yield up unto this my people, your cities, your lands, and your possessions, rather than that they should visit you with the sword and that destruction should come upon you.
Or in other words, yield yourselves up unto us, and unite with us and become acquainted with our asecret works, and become our brethren that ye may be like unto us—not our slaves, but our brethren and partners of all our substance.
And behold, I aswear unto you, if ye will do this, with an oath, ye shall not be destroyed; but if ye will not do this, I swear unto you with an oath, that on the morrow month I will command that my armies shall come down against you, and they shall not stay their hand and shall spare not, but shall slay you, and shall let fall the sword upon you even until ye shall become extinct.
And behold, I am aGiddianhi; and I am the governor of this the bsecret society of Gadianton; which society and the works thereof I know to be cgood; and they are of dancient date and they have been handed down unto us.
And I write this epistle unto you, Lachoneus, and I hope that ye will deliver up your lands and your possessions, without the shedding of blood, that this my people may recover their rights and agovernment, who have dissented away from you because of your wickedness in retaining from them their rights of government, and except ye do this, I will avenge their wrongs.
I am Giddianhi.
And now it came to pass when Lachoneus received this epistle he was exceedingly astonished, because of the boldness of Giddianhi demanding the possession of the land of the Nephites, and also of threatening the people and avenging the wrongs of those that had received no wrong, save it were they had awronged themselves by dissenting away unto those wicked and abominable robbers.
Now behold, this Lachoneus, the governor, was a just man, and could not be frightened by the demands and the threatenings of a arobber; therefore he did not hearken to the epistle of Giddianhi, the governor of the robbers, but he did cause that his people should cry unto the Lord for bstrength against the time that the robbers should come down against them.
Yea, he sent a proclamation among all the people, that they should agather together their women, and their children, their flocks and their herds, and all their substance, save it were their land, unto one place.
And he caused that afortifications should be built round about them, and the strength thereof should be exceedingly great.
And he caused that armies, both of the Nephites and of the Lamanites, or of all them who were numbered among the Nephites, should be placed as guards round about to watch them, and to guard them from the robbers day and night.
Yea, he said unto them: As the Lord liveth, except ye repent of all your iniquities, and cry unto the Lord, ye will in nowise be adelivered out of the hands of those Gadianton robbers.
And so great and marvelous were the words and prophecies of Lachoneus that they did cause fear to come upon all the people; and they did exert themselves in their might to do according to the words of Lachoneus.
And it came to pass that Lachoneus did appoint chief captains over all the armies of the Nephites, to command them at the time that the robbers should come down out of the wilderness against them.
Now the chiefest among all the chief captains and the great commander of all the armies of the Nephites was appointed, and his name was aGidgiddoni.
Now it was the custom among all the Nephites to appoint for their chief captains, (save it were in their times of wickedness) some one that had the aspirit of revelation and also prophecy; therefore, this Gidgiddoni was a great prophet among them, as also was the chief judge.
Now the people said unto Gidgiddoni: aPray unto the Lord, and let us go up upon the mountains and into the wilderness, that we may fall upon the robbers and destroy them in their own lands.
But Gidgiddoni saith unto them: The Lord aforbid; for if we should go up against them the Lord would bdeliver us into their hands; therefore we will prepare ourselves in the center of our lands, and we will gather all our armies together, and we will not go against them, but we will wait till they shall come against us; therefore as the Lord liveth, if we do this he will deliver them into our hands.
And it came to pass in the seventeenth year, in the latter end of the year, the proclamation of Lachoneus had gone forth throughout all the face of the land, and they had taken their ahorses, and their chariots, and their cattle, and all their flocks, and their herds, and their grain, and all their substance, and did march forth by thousands and by tens of thousands, until they had all gone forth to the bplace which chad been appointed that they should gather themselves together, to defend themselves against their enemies.
And the aland which was appointed was the land of Zarahemla, and the land which was between the land Zarahemla and the land bBountiful, yea, to the line which was between the cland Bountiful and the land Desolation.
And there were a great many thousand people who were called Nephites, who did gather themselves together in this land.
Now Lachoneus did cause that they should gather themselves together in the land asouthward, because of the great curse which was upon the bland northward.
And they did fortify themselves against their enemies; and they did dwell in one land, and in one body, and they did fear the words which had been spoken by Lachoneus, insomuch that they did repent of all their sins; and they did put up their aprayers unto the Lord their God, that he would deliver them in the time that their enemies should come down against them to battle.
And they were exceedingly sorrowful because of their enemies.
And Gidgiddoni did cause that they should make aweapons of war of every kind, and they should be strong with armor, and with shields, and with bucklers, after the manner of his instruction.
 Hearken, O ye Gentiles, and hear the words of Jesus Christ, the Son of the living God, which he hath acommanded me that I should speak concerning you, for, behold he commandeth me that I should write, saying: Turn, all ye aGentiles, from your wicked ways; and brepent of your evil doings, of your clyings and deceivings, and of your whoredoms, and of your secret abominations, and your idolatries, and of your dmurders, and your epriestcrafts, and your fenvyings, and your strifes, and from all your wickedness and abominations, and come unto me, and be baptized in my name, that ye may receive a remission of your sins, and be filled with the Holy Ghost, that ye may be gnumbered with my people who are of the house of Israel.
 Now behold, I will show unto you that they did not establish a king over the land; but in this same year, yea, the thirtieth year, they did destroy upon the judgment-seat, yea, did murder the chief judge of the land.
And the people were divided one against another; and they did aseparate one from another into tribes, every man according to his family and his kindred and friends; and thus they did destroy the government of the land.
And every tribe did appoint a chief or a leader over them; and thus they became tribes and leaders of tribes.
Now behold, there was no man among them save he had much family and many kindreds and friends; therefore their tribes became exceedingly great.
Now all this was done, and there were no wars as yet among them; and all this iniquity had come upon the people abecause they did byield themselves unto the power of Satan.
And the regulations of the government were destroyed, because of the asecret combination of the friends and kindreds of those who murdered the prophets.
And they did cause a great contention in the land, insomuch that the more righteous part of the people had nearly all become wicked; yea, there were but few righteous men among them.
And thus six years had not passed away since the more part of the people had turned from their righteousness, like the dog to his avomit, or like the sow to her wallowing in the mire.
Now this secret combination, which had brought so great iniquity upon the people, did gather themselves together, and did place at their head a man whom they did call Jacob; And they did call him their king; therefore he became a king over this wicked band; and he was one of the chiefest who had given his voice against the prophets who testified of Jesus.
And it came to pass that they were not so strong in number as the tribes of the people, who were united together save it were their leaders did establish their laws, every one according to his tribe; nevertheless they were enemies; notwithstanding they were not a righteous people, yet they were united in the hatred of those who had entered into a covenant to adestroy the government.
Therefore, Jacob seeing that their enemies were more numerous than they, he being the king of the band, therefore he commanded his people that they should take their flight into the northernmost part of the land, and there build up unto themselves a akingdom, until they were joined by dissenters, (for he flattered them that there would be many dissenters) and they become sufficiently strong to contend with the tribes of the people; and they did so.
And so speedy was their march that it could not be impeded until they had gone forth out of the reach of the people.
And thus ended the thirtieth year; and thus were the affairs of the people of Nephi.
And it came to pass in the thirty and first year that they were divided into tribes, every man according to his family, kindred and friends; nevertheless they had come to an agreement that they would not go to war one with another; but they were not united as to their laws, and their manner of government, for they were established according to the minds of those who were their chiefs and their leaders.
But they did establish very strict laws that one tribe should not trespass against another, insomuch that in some degree they had peace in the land; nevertheless, their hearts were turned from the Lord their God, and they did stone the aprophets and did cast them out from among them.
And it came to pass that aNephi—having been visited by angels and also the voice of the Lord, therefore having seen angels, and being eye-witness, and having had power given unto him that he might know concerning the ministry of Christ, and also being eye-witness to their quick return from righteousness unto their wickedness and abominations; Therefore, being agrieved for the hardness of their hearts and the blindness of their minds—went forth among them in that same year, and began to testify, boldly, repentance and remission of sins through faith on the Lord Jesus Christ.
And he did minister many things unto them; and all of them cannot be written, and a part of them would not suffice, therefore they are not written in this book.
And Nephi did minister with apower and with great authority.
And it came to pass that they were angry with him, even because he had greater power than they, for it were anot possible that they could disbelieve his words, for so great was his faith on the Lord Jesus Christ that angels did minister unto him daily.
And in the name of Jesus did he cast out devils and aunclean spirits; and even his bbrother did he craise from the dead, after he had been stoned and suffered death by the people.
And the people saw it, and did witness of it, and were angry with him because of his power; and he did also do amany more miracles, in the sight of the people, in the name of Jesus.
And it came to pass that the thirty and first year did pass away, and there were but few who were converted unto the Lord; but as many as were converted did truly signify unto the people that they had been avisited by the power and bSpirit of God, which was in Jesus Christ, in whom they believed.
And as many as had devils cast out from them, and were ahealed of their sicknesses and their infirmities, did truly manifest unto the people that they had been wrought upon by the Spirit of God, and had been healed; and they did show forth signs also and did do some miracles among the people.
Thus passed away the thirty and second year also.
And Nephi did cry unto the people in the commencement of the thirty and third year; and he did preach unto them repentance and remission of sins.
Now I would have you to remember also, that there were none who were brought unto arepentance who were not baptized with water.
Therefore, there were ordained of Nephi, men unto this ministry, that all such as should come unto them should be abaptized with water, and this as a witness and a testimony before God, and unto the people, that they had repented and received a bremission of their sins.
And there were many in the commencement of this year that were baptized unto repentance; and thus the more part of the year did pass away.
 And now it came to pass that according to our record, and we know our record to be atrue, for behold, it was a bjust man who did keep the record—for he truly did cmany dmiracles in the ename of Jesus; and there was not any man who could do a miracle in the name of Jesus save he were cleansed every whit from his iniquity— And now it came to pass, if there was no mistake made by this man in the reckoning of our time, the athirty and third year had passed away; And the people began to look with great earnestness for the sign which had been given by the prophet Samuel, the Lamanite, yea, for the time that there should be adarkness for the space of three days over the face of the land.
And there began to be great adoubtings and bdisputations among the people, notwithstanding so many signs had been given.
And it came to pass in the athirty and fourth year, in the first month, on the fourth day of the month, there arose a great bstorm, such an one as never had been known in all the land.
And there was also a great and terrible tempest; and there was terrible athunder, insomuch that it did bshake the whole earth as if it was about to divide asunder.
And there were exceedingly sharp lightnings, such as never had been known in all the land.
And the acity of Zarahemla did take fire.
And the city of aMoroni did bsink into the depths of the sea, and the inhabitants thereof were drowned.
And the earth was carried up upon the city of aMoronihah, that in the place of the city there became a great bmountain.
And there was a great and terrible destruction in the land southward.
But behold, there was a more great and terrible destruction in the land northward; for behold, the awhole face of the land was changed, because of the tempest and the whirlwinds, and the thunderings and the lightnings, and the exceedingly great quaking of the whole earth; And the ahighways were broken up, and the level roads were spoiled, and many smooth places became rough.
And many agreat and notable cities were bsunk, and many were cburned, and many were shaken till the buildings thereof had fallen to the earth, and the inhabitants thereof were slain, and the places were left desolate.
And there were some cities which remained; but the damage thereof was exceedingly great, and there were many in them who were slain.
And there were some who were carried away in the awhirlwind; and whither they went no man knoweth, save they know that they were carried away.
And thus the face of the whole earth became deformed, because of the tempests, and the thunderings, and the lightnings, and the quaking of the earth.
And behold, the rocks were rent in twain; they were broken up upon the face of the whole earth, insomuch that they were afound in broken fragments, and in seams and in cracks, upon all the face of the land.
And it came to pass that when the thunderings, and the lightnings, and the storm, and the tempest, and the quakings of the earth did cease—for behold, they did last for about the space of athree bhours; and it was said by some that the time was greater; nevertheless, all these great and terrible things were done in about the space of three hours—and then behold, there was cdarkness upon the face of the land.
And it came to pass that there was thick darkness upon all the face of the land, insomuch that the inhabitants thereof who had not fallen could afeel the bvapor of darkness; And there could be no light, because of the darkness, neither candles, neither torches; neither could there be fire kindled with their fine and exceedingly dry wood, so that there could not be any light at all; And there was not any light seen, neither fire, nor glimmer, neither the sun, nor the moon, nor the stars, for so great were the mists of darkness which were upon the face of the land.
And it came to pass that it did last for the space of three days that there was no light seen; and there was great mourning and ahowling and weeping among all the people continually; yea, great were the groanings of the people, because of the darkness and the great destruction which had come upon them.
And in one place they were heard to cry, saying: O that we had repented abefore this great and terrible day, and then would our brethren have been spared, and they would not have been bburned in that great city Zarahemla.
And in another place they were heard to cry and mourn, saying: O that we had repented before this great and terrible day, and had not killed and stoned the prophets, and cast them out; then would our mothers and our fair daughters, and our children have been spared, and not have been buried up in that great city aMoronihah.
And thus were the howlings of the people great and terrible.
 And it came to pass that there was a avoice heard among all the inhabitants of the earth, upon all the face of this land, crying: Wo, wo, wo unto this people; wo unto the inhabitants of the whole earth except they shall arepent; for the devil blaugheth, and his angels rejoice, because of the slain of the fair sons and daughters of my people; and it is because of their iniquity and abominations that they are fallen!
Behold, that great city Zarahemla have I aburned with fire, and the inhabitants thereof.
And behold, that great city Moroni have I caused to be asunk in the depths of the sea, and the inhabitants thereof to be drowned.
And behold, that great city aMoronihah have I covered with earth, and the inhabitants thereof, to hide their iniquities and their abominations from before my face, that the blood of the prophets and the saints shall not come any more unto me against them.
And behold, the city of Gilgal have I caused to be sunk, and the inhabitants thereof to be buried up in the depths of the earth; Yea, and the city of Onihah and the inhabitants thereof, and the city of Mocum and the inhabitants thereof, and the city of aJerusalem and the inhabitants thereof; and bwaters have I caused to come up in the stead thereof, to hide their wickedness and abominations from before my face, that the cblood of the prophets and the saints shall dnot come up any more unto me against them.
And behold, the city of Gadiandi, and the city of Gadiomnah, and the city of Jacob, and the city of Gimgimno, all these have I caused to be sunk, and made ahills and valleys in the places thereof; and the inhabitants thereof have I bburied up in the depths of the earth, to hide their wickedness and abominations from before my face, that the blood of the prophets and the saints should not come up any more unto me against them.
And behold, that great city Jacobugath, which was inhabited by the people of king Jacob, have I caused to be burned with fire because of their sins and their awickedness, which was above all the wickedness of the whole earth, because of their bsecret murders and combinations; for it was they that did cdestroy the peace of my people and the government of the land; therefore I did cause them to be burned, to ddestroy them from before my face, that the blood of the prophets and the saints should not come up unto me any more against them.
And behold, the city of Laman, and the city of Josh, and the city of Gad, and the city of Kishkumen, have I caused to be burned with fire, and the inhabitants thereof, because of their wickedness in casting out the prophets, and stoning those whom I did send to declare unto them concerning their wickedness and their abominations.
And because they did cast them all out, that there were none righteous among them, I did send down afire and destroy them, that their wickedness and abominations might be hid from before my bface, that the blood of the prophets and the saints whom I sent among them might not cry unto me cfrom the ground against them.
And amany great destructions have I caused to come upon this land, and upon this people, because of their wickedness and their abominations.
O all ye that are aspared because ye were more brighteous than they, will ye not now return unto me, and repent of your sins, and be converted, that I may cheal you?
Yea, verily I say unto you, if ye will acome unto me ye shall have beternal life.
Behold, mine carm of mercy is extended towards you, and whosoever will come, him will I receive; and blessed are those who come unto me.
Behold, I am Jesus Christ the Son of God.
I acreated the heavens and the earth, and all things that in them are.
I was with the Father from the beginning.
bI am in the Father, and the Father in me; and in me hath the Father glorified his name.
I came unto my own, and my own areceived me not.
And the scriptures bconcerning my coming are fulfilled.
And as many as have received me, to them have I agiven to become the sons of God; and even so will I to as many as shall believe on my name, for behold, by me bredemption cometh, and cin me is the dlaw of Moses fulfilled.
I am the alight and the life of the world.
I am bAlpha and Omega, the beginning and the end.
And ye shall offer up unto me ano more the shedding of blood; yea, your sacrifices and your burnt offerings shall be done away, for I will accept none of your sacrifices and your burnt offerings.
And ye shall offer for a asacrifice unto me a broken heart and a contrite spirit.
And whoso cometh unto me with a broken heart and a contrite spirit, him will I bbaptize with fire and with the Holy Ghost, even as the Lamanites, because of their faith in me at the time of their conversion, were baptized with fire and with the Holy Ghost, and they knew it not.
Behold, I have come unto the world to bring aredemption unto the world, to save the world from sin.
Therefore, whoso arepenteth and cometh unto me bas a clittle child, him will I receive, for of such is the kingdom of God.
Behold, for such I have dlaid down my life, and have taken it up again; therefore repent, and come unto me ye ends of the earth, and be saved.
 And it came to pass that the thirty and fourth year passed away, and also the thirty and fifth, and behold the disciples of Jesus had formed a church of Christ in all the lands round about.
And as many as did come unto them, and did truly repent of their sins, were abaptized in the name of Jesus; and they did also receive the Holy Ghost.
And it came to pass in the thirty and sixth year, the people were all converted unto the Lord, upon all the face of the land, both Nephites and Lamanites, and there were no contentions and disputations among them, and every man did deal justly one with another.
And they had aall things common among them; therefore there were not rich and poor, bond and free, but they were all made free, and partakers of the heavenly bgift.
And it came to pass that the thirty and seventh year passed away also, and there still continued to be apeace in the land.
And there were great and marvelous works wrought by the disciples of Jesus, insomuch that they did aheal the sick, and braise the dead, and cause the lame to walk, and the blind to receive their sight, and the deaf to hear; and all manner of cmiracles did they work among the children of men; and in nothing did they work miracles save it were in the name of Jesus.
And thus did the thirty and eighth year pass away, and also the thirty and ninth, and forty and first, and the forty and second, yea, even until forty and nine years had passed away, and also the fifty and first, and the fifty and second; yea, and even until fifty and nine years had passed away.
And the Lord did prosper them exceedingly in the land; yea, insomuch that they did build cities again where there had been cities burned.
Yea, even that great acity Zarahemla did they cause to be built again.
But there were many cities which had been asunk, and waters came up in the stead thereof; therefore these cities could not be renewed.
And now, behold, it came to pass that the people of Nephi did wax strong, and did multiply exceedingly fast, and became an exceedingly afair and delightsome people.
And they were married, and given in marriage, and were blessed according to the multitude of the apromises which the Lord had made unto them.
And they did not walk any more after the aperformances and bordinances of the claw of Moses; but they did walk after the commandments which they had received from their Lord and their God, continuing in dfasting and prayer, and in meeting together oft both to pray and to hear the word of the Lord.
And it came to pass that there was no contention among all the people, in all the land; but there were mighty miracles wrought among the disciples of Jesus.
And it came to pass that the seventy and first year passed away, and also the seventy and second year, yea, and in fine, till the seventy and ninth year had passed away; yea, even an hundred years had passed away, and the adisciples of Jesus, whom he had chosen, had all gone to the bparadise of God, save it were the cthree who should tarry; and there were other ddisciples eordained in their stead; and also many of that fgeneration had passed away.
And it came to pass that there was no acontention in the land, because of the blove of God which did dwell in the hearts of the people.
And there were no aenvyings, nor bstrifes, nor ctumults, nor whoredoms, nor lyings, nor murders, nor any manner of dlasciviousness; and surely there could not be a ehappier people among all the people who had been created by the hand of God.
There were no robbers, nor murderers, neither were there Lamanites, nor any manner of -ites; but they were in aone, the children of Christ, and heirs to the kingdom of God.
And how blessed were they!
For the Lord did bless them in all their doings; yea, even they were blessed and prospered until an hundred and ten years had passed away; and the first generation from Christ had passed away, and there was no contention in all the land.
And it came to pass that aNephi, he that kept this last record, (and he kept it upon the bplates of Nephi) died, and his son Amos kept it in his stead; and he kept it upon the plates of Nephi also.
And he kept it eighty and four years, and there was still peace in the land, save it were a small part of the people who had revolted from the church and taken upon them the name of Lamanites; therefore there began to be aLamanites again in the land.
And it came to pass that aAmos died also, (and it was an hundred and ninety and four years from the coming of Christ) and his son Amos kept the record in his stead; and he also kept it upon the plates of Nephi; and it was also written in the book of Nephi, which is this book.
And it came to pass that two hundred years had passed away; and the second generation had all passed away save it were a few.
And now I, Mormon, would that ye should know that the people had multiplied, insomuch that they were spread upon all the face of the land, and that they had become exceedingly arich, because of their prosperity in Christ.
And now, in this two hundred and first year there began to be among them those who were lifted up in apride, such as the wearing of costly apparel, and all manner of fine pearls, and of the fine things of the world.
And from that time forth they did have their goods and their substance no more acommon among them.
And they began to be divided into classes; and they began to build up achurches unto themselves to get bgain, and began to deny the true church of Christ.
And it came to pass that when two hundred and ten years had passed away there were many churches in the land; yea, there were many churches which professed to know the Christ, and yet they did adeny the more parts of his gospel, insomuch that they did receive all manner of wickedness, and did administer that which was sacred unto him to whom it had been bforbidden because of unworthiness.
And this church did multiply exceedingly because of iniquity, and because of the power of aSatan who did get hold upon their bhearts.
And again, there was another church which denied the Christ; and they did apersecute the true bchurch of Christ, because of their humility and their belief in Christ; and they did despise them because of the many miracles which were wrought among them.
Therefore they did exercise power and authority over the disciples of Jesus who did tarry with them, and they did cast them into aprison; but by the power of the word of God, which was in them, the prisons were rent in twain, and they went forth doing mighty miracles among them.
Nevertheless, and notwithstanding all these miracles, the people did harden their hearts, and did seek to kill them, even as the Jews at Jerusalem sought to kill Jesus, according to his word.
And they did cast them into afurnaces of bfire, and they came forth receiving no harm.
And they also cast them into adens of wild beasts, and they did play with the wild beasts even as a child with a lamb; and they did come forth from among them, receiving no harm.
Nevertheless, the people did harden their hearts, for they were led by many priests and afalse prophets to build up many churches, and to do all manner of iniquity.
And they did bsmite upon the people of Jesus; but the people of Jesus did not smite again.
And thus they did dwindle in unbelief and wickedness, from year to year, even until two hundred and thirty years had passed away.
And now it came to pass in this year, yea, in the two hundred and thirty and first year, there was a great division among the people.
And it came to pass that in this year there arose a people who were called the aNephites, and they were true believers in Christ; and among them there were those who were called by the Lamanites—Jacobites, and Josephites, and bZoramites; Therefore the true believers in Christ, and the true worshipers of Christ, (among whom were the athree disciples of Jesus who should tarry) were called Nephites, and Jacobites, and Josephites, and Zoramites.
And it came to pass that they who rejected the gospel were called Lamanites, and Lemuelites, and Ishmaelites; and they did not dwindle in aunbelief, but they did bwilfully rebel against the gospel of Christ; and they did teach their children that they should not believe, even as their fathers, from the beginning, did dwindle.
And it was because of the wickedness and abomination of their fathers, even as it was in the beginning.
And they were ataught to hate the children of God, even as the Lamanites were taught to bhate the children of Nephi from the beginning.
And it came to pass that two hundred and forty and four years had passed away, and thus were the affairs of the people.
And the amore wicked part of the people did wax strong, and became exceedingly more numerous than were the people of God.
And they did still continue to build up churches unto themselves, and adorn them with all manner of precious things.
And thus did two hundred and fifty years pass away, and also two hundred and sixty years.
And it came to pass that the wicked part of the people began again to build up the secret oaths and acombinations of Gadianton.
And also the people who were called the people of Nephi began to be proud in their hearts, because of their exceeding riches, and become avain like unto their brethren, the Lamanites.
And from this time the disciples began to sorrow for the asins of the world.
And it came to pass that when three hundred years had passed away, both the people of Nephi and the Lamanites had become exceedingly wicked one like unto another.
And it came to pass that the robbers of aGadianton did spread over all the face of the land; and there were none that were righteous save it were the disciples of Jesus.
And gold and silver did they lay up in store in abundance, and did btraffic in all manner of traffic.
And it came to pass that after three hundred and five years had passed away, (and the people did still remain in wickedness) aAmos died; and his brother, Ammaron, did keep the record in his stead.
And it came to pass that when three hundred and twenty years had passed away, aAmmaron, being constrained by the Holy Ghost, did bhide up the crecords which were dsacred—yea, even all the sacred records which had been handed down from generation to generation, which were sacred—even until the three hundred and twentieth year from the coming of Christ.
And he did hide them up unto the Lord, that they might acome again unto the remnant of the house of Jacob, according to the prophecies and the promises of the Lord.
And thus is the end of the record of Ammaron.
 Now it came to pass that in the first year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi, from this time forward, king Mosiah having agone the way of all the earth, having warred a good warfare, walking uprightly before God, leaving none to reign in his stead; nevertheless he had established blaws, and they were acknowledged by the people; therefore they were obliged to abide by the claws which he had made.
And it came to pass that in the first year of the reign of Alma in the judgment-seat, there was a aman brought before him to be judged, a man who was large, and was noted for his much strength.
And he had gone about among the people, preaching to them that which he atermed to be the word of God, bearing down bagainst the church; declaring unto the people that every priest and teacher ought to become cpopular; and they ought dnot to labor with their hands, but that they ought to be supported by the people.
And he also testified unto the people that aall mankind should be saved at the last day, and that they bneed not fear nor tremble, but that they might lift up their heads and rejoice; for the Lord had ccreated all men, and had also dredeemed eall men; and, in the end, all men should have eternal life.
And it came to pass that he did teach these things so much that many did believe on his words, even so many that they began to support him and give him amoney.
And he began to be lifted up in the pride of his heart, and to wear very costly aapparel, yea, and even began to bestablish a cchurch after the manner of his preaching.
And it came to pass as he was going, to preach to those who believed on his word, he met a man who belonged to the church of God, yea, even one of their ateachers; and he began to contend with him sharply, that he might lead away the people of the church; but the man withstood him, admonishing him with the bwords of God.
Now the name of the man was aGideon; and it was he who was an instrument in the hands of God in delivering the people of Limhi out of bondage.
Now, because Gideon withstood him with the words of God he was wroth with Gideon, and drew his sword and began to smite him.
Now Gideon being astricken with many years, therefore he was not able to withstand his blows, therefore he was bslain by the sword.
And the man who slew him was taken by the people of the church, and was brought before Alma, to be ajudged according to the crimes which he had committed.
And it came to pass that he stood before Alma and pled for himself with much boldness.
But Alma said unto him: Behold, this is the first time that apriestcraft has been introduced among this people.
And behold, thou art not only guilty of priestcraft, but hast endeavored to enforce it by the sword; and were bpriestcraft to be enforced among this people it would prove their entire destruction.
And thou hast shed the ablood of a righteous man, yea, a man who has done much good among this people; and were we to spare thee his blood would come upon us for bvengeance.
Therefore thou art condemned to adie, according to the blaw which has been given us by Mosiah, our last king; and it has been cacknowledged by this people; therefore this people must dabide by the law.
And it came to pass that they took him; and his name was aNehor; and they carried him upon the top of the hill Manti, and there he was caused, or rather did acknowledge, between the heavens and the earth, that what he had taught to the people was contrary to the word of God; and there he suffered an ignominious bdeath.
Nevertheless, this did not put an end to the spreading of priestcraft through the land; for there were many who loved the vain things of the world, and they went forth preaching afalse doctrines; and this they did for the sake of briches and honor.
Nevertheless, they durst not alie, if it were known, for fear of the law, for liars were punished; therefore they pretended to preach according to their belief; and now the law could have no power on any man for bhis belief.
And they durst not asteal, for fear of the law, for such were punished; neither durst they rob, nor murder, for he that bmurdered was punished unto cdeath.
But it came to pass that whosoever did not belong to the church of God began to persecute those that did belong to the church of God, and had taken upon them the name of Christ.
Yea, they did persecute them, and afflict them with all manner of words, and this because of their humility; because they were not proud in their own eyes, and because they did impart the word of God, one with another, without amoney and without price.
Now there was a strict law among the people of the church, that there should anot any man, belonging to the church, arise and persecute those that did not belong to the church, and that there should be no persecution among themselves.
Nevertheless, there were many among them who began to be proud, and began to contend warmly with their adversaries, even unto blows; yea, they would smite one another with their afists.
Now this was in the second year of the reign of Alma, and it was a cause of much affliction to the church; yea, it was the cause of much trial with the church.
For the hearts of many were hardened, and their names were ablotted out, that they were remembered no more among the people of God.
And also many bwithdrew themselves from among them.
Now this was a great trial to those that did stand fast in the faith; nevertheless, they were asteadfast and immovable in keeping the commandments of God, and they bore with bpatience the persecution which was heaped upon them.
And when the priests left their alabor to impart the word of God unto the people, the people also left their labors to hear the word of God.
And when the priest had imparted unto them the word of God they all returned again diligently unto their labors; and the priest, not esteeming himself above his hearers, for the preacher was no better than the hearer, neither was the teacher any better than the learner; and thus they were all equal, and they did all labor, every man baccording to his strength.
And they did aimpart of their substance, every man according to that which he had, to the bpoor, and the needy, and the sick, and the afflicted; and they did not wear costly capparel, yet they were neat and comely.
And thus they did establish the affairs of the church; and thus they began to have continual peace again, notwithstanding all their persecutions.
And now, because of the steadiness of the church they began to be exceedingly arich, having abundance of all things whatsoever they stood in need—an abundance of flocks and herds, and fatlings of every kind, and also abundance of grain, and of gold, and of silver, and of precious things, and abundance of bsilk and fine-twined linen, and all manner of good homely ccloth.
And thus, in their aprosperous circumstances, they did not send away any who were bnaked, or that were hungry, or that were athirst, or that were sick, or that had not been nourished; and they did not set their hearts upon criches; therefore they were dliberal to all, both old and young, both bond and free, both male and female, whether out of the church or in the church, having no erespect to persons as to those who stood in need.
And thus they did aprosper and become far more wealthy than those who did not belong to their church.
For those who did not belong to their church did indulge themselves in asorceries, and in bidolatry or cidleness, and in dbabblings, and in eenvyings and fstrife; wearing costly apparel; being glifted up in the pride of their own eyes; persecuting, lying, thieving, robbing, committing whoredoms, and murdering, and all manner of wickedness; nevertheless, the law was put in force upon all those who did transgress it, inasmuch as it was possible.
And it came to pass that by thus exercising the law upon them, every man suffering according to that which he had done, they became more still, and durst not commit any wickedness if it were known; therefore, there was much peace among the people of Nephi until the fifth year of the reign of the judges.
 Now these are the awords which bAmulek preached unto the people who were in the land of Ammonihah, saying: I am Amulek; I am the son of Giddonah, who was the son of Ishmael, who was a descendant of Aminadi; and it was that same Aminadi who interpreted the awriting which was upon the wall of the temple, which was written by the finger of God.
And Aminadi was a descendant of Nephi, who was the son of Lehi, who came out of the land of Jerusalem, who was a descendant of aManasseh, who was the son of bJoseph who was csold into Egypt by the hands of his brethren.
And behold, I am also a man of no small areputation among all those who know me; yea, and behold, I have many kindreds and bfriends, and I have also acquired much riches by the hand of my cindustry.
Nevertheless, after all this, I never have known much of the ways of the Lord, and his amysteries and marvelous power.
I said I never had known much of these things; but behold, I mistake, for I have seen much of his mysteries and his marvelous power; yea, even in the preservation of the lives of this people.
Nevertheless, I did harden my heart, for I was acalled many times and I would not bhear; therefore I knew concerning these things, yet I would not know; therefore I went on rebelling cagainst God, in the wickedness of my heart, even until the fourth day of this seventh month, which is in the tenth year of the reign of the judges.
As I was journeying to see a very near kindred, behold an aangel of the Lord appeared unto me and said: Amulek, return to thine own house, for thou shalt feed a prophet of the Lord; yea, a holy man, who is a chosen man of God; for he has bfasted many days because of the sins of this people, and he is an hungered, and thou shalt creceive him into thy house and feed him, and he shall bless thee and thy house; and the blessing of the Lord shall rest upon thee and thy house.
And it came to pass that I obeyed the voice of the angel, and returned towards my house.
And as I was going thither I found the aman whom the angel said unto me: Thou shalt receive into thy house—and behold it was this same man who has been speaking unto you concerning the things of God.
And the angel said unto me he is a aholy man; wherefore I know he is a holy man because it was said by an angel of God.
And again, I know that the things whereof he hath testified are true; for behold I say unto you, that as the Lord liveth, even so has he sent his aangel to make these things manifest unto me; and this he has done while this Alma hath bdwelt at my house.
For behold, he hath ablessed mine house, he hath blessed me, and my women, and my children, and my father and my kinsfolk; yea, even all my kindred hath he blessed, and the blessing of the Lord hath rested upon us according to the words which he spake.
And now, when Amulek had spoken these words the people began to be astonished, seeing there was amore than one witness who testified of the things whereof they were accused, and also of the things which were to come, according to the spirit of prophecy which was in them.
Nevertheless, there were some among them who thought to question them, that by their cunning adevices they might catch them in their words, that they might bfind witness against them, that they might deliver them to their judges that they might be judged according to the law, and that they might be slain or cast into prison, according to the crime which they could make appear or witness against them.
Now it was those men who sought to destroy them, who were alawyers, who were hired or appointed by the people to administer the law at their times of trials, or at the trials of the crimes of the people before the judges.
Now these lawyers were learned in all the arts and acunning of the people; and this was to enable them that they might be skilful in their profession.
And it came to pass that they began to question Amulek, that thereby they might make him across his words, or contradict the words which he should speak.
Now they knew not that Amulek could aknow of their designs.
But it came to pass as they began to question him, he bperceived their thoughts, and he said unto them: O ye wicked and perverse cgeneration, ye lawyers and hypocrites, for ye are laying the foundations of the devil; for ye are laying dtraps and snares to catch the holy ones of God.
Ye are laying plans to apervert the ways of the righteous, and to bring down the wrath of God upon your heads, even to the utter destruction of this people.
Yea, well did Mosiah say, who was our last king, when he was about to deliver up the kingdom, having no one to confer it upon, causing that this people should be governed by their own voices—yea, well did he say that if the time should come that the voice of this people should achoose iniquity, that is, if the time should come that this people should fall into transgression, they would be ripe for destruction.
And now I say unto you that well doth the Lord ajudge of your iniquities; well doth he cry unto this people, by the voice of his bangels: Repent ye, repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand.
Yea, well doth he cry, by the voice of his angels that: aI will come down among my people, with equity and justice in my hands.
Yea, and I say unto you that if it were not for the aprayers of the righteous, who are now in the land, that ye would even now be visited with utter destruction; yet it would not be by bflood, as were the people in the days of cNoah, but it would be by famine, and by pestilence, and the dsword.
But it is by the aprayers of the righteous that ye are spared; now therefore, if ye will bcast out the righteous from among you then will not the Lord stay his hand; but in his fierce anger he will come out against you; then ye shall be smitten by famine, and by pestilence, and by the sword; and the ctime is soon at hand except ye repent.
And now it came to pass that the people were more angry with Amulek, and they cried out, saying: This man doth revile against our laws which are just, and our wise alawyers whom we have selected.
But Amulek stretched forth his hand, and cried the mightier unto them, saying: O ye wicked and perverse generation, why hath Satan got such great hold upon your hearts?
Why will ye yield yourselves unto him that he may have power over you, to ablind your eyes, that ye will not understand the words which are spoken, according to their truth?
For behold, have I testified against your law?
Ye do not understand; ye say that I have spoken against your law; but I have not, but I have spoken in favor of your law, to your condemnation.
And now behold, I say unto you, that the foundation of the adestruction of this people is beginning to be laid by the bunrighteousness of your clawyers and your judges.
And now it came to pass that when Amulek had spoken these words the people cried out against him, saying: Now we know that this man is a achild of the devil, for he hath blied unto us; for he hath spoken against our law.
And now he says that he has not spoken against it.
And again, he has reviled against our lawyers, and our judges.
And it came to pass that the lawyers put it into their hearts that they should remember these things against him.
And there was one among them whose name was Zeezrom.
Now he was the foremost to aaccuse Amulek and Alma, he being one of the most expert among them, having much business to do among the people.
Now the object of these lawyers was to get gain; and they got gain aaccording to their employ.
 Now it was in the law of Mosiah that every man who was a judge of the law, or those who were appointed to be judges, should receive awages baccording to the time which they labored to judge those who were brought before them to be judged.
Now if a man owed another, and he would not apay that which he did owe, he was complained of to the judge; and the judge executed authority, and sent forth officers that the man should be brought before him; and he judged the man according to the law and the evidences which were brought against him, and thus the man was compelled to pay that which he owed, or be stripped, or be cast out from among the people as a thief and a robber.
And the judge received for his wages aaccording to his time—a bsenine of gold for a day, or a senum of silver, which is equal to a senine of gold; and this is according to the law which was given.
Now these are the names of the different pieces of their gold, and of their silver, according to their value.
And the names are given by the Nephites, for they did not reckon after the amanner of the Jews who were at Jerusalem; neither did they measure after the manner of the Jews; but they altered their reckoning and their measure, according to the minds and the circumstances of the people, in every generation, until the reign of the judges, they having been bestablished by king Mosiah.
Now the reckoning is thus—a senine of gold, a seon of gold, a shum of gold, and a limnah of gold.
A senum of silver, an amnor of silver, an ezrom of silver, and an onti of silver.
A senum of silver was equal to a senine of gold, and either for a measure of barley, and also for a measure of every kind of grain.
Now the amount of a seon of gold was twice the value of a senine.
And a shum of gold was twice the value of a seon.
And a limnah of gold was the value of them all.
And an amnor of silver was as great as two senums.
And an ezrom of silver was as great as four senums.
And an onti was as great as them all.
Now this is the value of the lesser numbers of their reckoning— A shiblon is half of a senum; therefore, a shiblon for half a measure of barley.
And a shiblum is a half of a shiblon.
And a leah is the half of a shiblum.
Now this is their number, according to their reckoning.
Now an antion of gold is equal to three shiblons.
Now, it was for the sole purpose to get again, because they received their wages according to their bemploy, therefore, they did cstir up the people to driotings, and all manner of disturbances and wickedness, that they might have more employ, that they might eget fmoney according to the suits which were brought before them; therefore they did stir up the people against Alma and Amulek.
And this Zeezrom began to question Amulek, saying: Will ye answer me a few questions which I shall ask you?
Now Zeezrom was a man who was aexpert in the bdevices of the devil, that he might destroy that which was good; therefore, he said unto Amulek: Will ye answer the questions which I shall put unto you?
And Amulek said unto him: Yea, if it be according to the aSpirit of the Lord, which is in me; for I shall say nothing which is contrary to the Spirit of the Lord.
And Zeezrom said unto him: Behold, here are six onties of silver, and all these will I bgive thee if thou wilt deny the existence of a Supreme Being.
Now Amulek said: O thou achild of hell, why btempt ye me?
Knowest thou that the righteous yieldeth to no such temptations?
Believest thou that there is no God?
I say unto you, Nay, thou knowest that there is a God, but thou lovest that alucre more than him.
And now thou hast lied before God unto me.
Thou saidst unto me—Behold these six onties, which are of great worth, I will give unto thee—when thou hadst it in thy heart to retain them from me; and it was only thy desire that I should deny the true and living God, that thou mightest have cause to destroy me.
And now behold, for this great evil thou shalt have thy reward.
And Zeezrom said unto him: Thou sayest there is a true and living God?
And Amulek said: Yea, there is a true and living God.
Now Zeezrom said: Is there more than one God?
And he answered, No.
Now Zeezrom said unto him again: How knowest thou these things?
And he said: An aangel hath made them known unto me.
And Zeezrom said again: Who is he that shall come?
Is it the Son of God?
And he said unto him, Yea.
And Zeezrom said again: Shall he save his people ain their sins?
And Amulek answered and said unto him: I say unto you he shall not, for it is impossible for him to deny his word.
Now Zeezrom said unto the people: See that ye remember these things; for he said there is but one God; yet he saith that the Son of God shall come, but he shall anot save his people—as though he had authority to command God.
Now Amulek saith again unto him: Behold thou hast alied, for thou sayest that I spake as though I had authority to command God because I said he shall not save his people in their sins.
And I say unto you again that he cannot save them in their asins; for I cannot deny his word, and he hath said that bno unclean thing can inherit the ckingdom of heaven; therefore, how can ye be saved, except ye inherit the kingdom of heaven?
Therefore, ye cannot be saved in your sins.
Now Zeezrom saith again unto him: Is the Son of God the very Eternal Father?
And Amulek said unto him: Yea, he is the very aEternal Father of heaven and of earth, and ball things which in them are; he is the beginning and the end, the first and the last; And he shall come into the aworld to bredeem his people; and he shall ctake upon him the transgressions of those who believe on his name; and these are they that shall have eternal life, and salvation cometh to none else.
Therefore the wicked remain as though there had been ano redemption made, except it be the loosing of the bands of death; for behold, the day cometh that ball shall rise from the dead and stand before God, and be cjudged according to their works.
Now, there is a death which is called a temporal death; and the death of Christ shall loose the abands of this temporal death, that all shall be raised from this temporal death.
The spirit and the body shall be areunited again in its bperfect form; both limb and joint shall be restored to its proper frame, even as we now are at this time; and we shall be brought to stand before God, cknowing even as we know now, and have a bright drecollection of all our eguilt.
Now, this restoration shall come to all, both old and young, both bond and free, both male and female, both the wicked and the righteous; and even there shall not so much as a hair of their heads be lost; but every thing shall be arestored to its perfect frame, as it is now, or in the body, and shall be brought and be arraigned before the bar of Christ the Son, and God the bFather, and the Holy Spirit, which is cone Eternal God, to be djudged according to their works, whether they be good or whether they be evil.
Now, behold, I have spoken unto you concerning the adeath of the mortal body, and also concerning the bresurrection of the mortal body.
I say unto you that this mortal body is craised to an dimmortal body, that is from death, even from the first death unto life, that they can edie no more; their spirits uniting with their bodies, never to be divided; thus the whole becoming fspiritual and immortal, that they can no more see corruption.
Now, when Amulek had finished these words the people began again to be astonished, and also Zeezrom began to tremble.
And thus ended the words of Amulek, or this is all that I have written.
 Now Alma, seeing that the words of Amulek had silenced Zeezrom, for he beheld that Amulek had caught him in his alying and deceiving to destroy him, and seeing that he began to tremble under a bconsciousness of his guilt, he opened his mouth and began to speak unto him, and to establish the words of Amulek, and to explain things beyond, or to unfold the scriptures beyond that which Amulek had done.
Now the words that Alma spake unto Zeezrom were heard by the people round about; for the multitude was great, and he spake on this wise: Now Zeezrom, seeing that thou hast been taken in thy lying and craftiness, for thou hast not lied unto men only but thou hast lied unto God; for behold, he knows all thy athoughts, and thou seest that thy bthoughts are made known unto us by his Spirit; And thou seest that we know that thy plan was a very asubtle plan, as to the subtlety of the devil, for to lie and to deceive this people that thou mightest set them against us, to brevile us and to cast us out— Now this was a plan of thine aadversary, and he hath exercised his power in thee.
Now I would that ye should remember that what I say unto thee I say unto all.
And behold I say unto you all that this was a asnare of the adversary, which he has laid to catch this people, that he might bring you into subjection unto him, that he might encircle you about with his bchains, that he might chain you down to everlasting destruction, according to the power of his captivity.
Now when Alma had spoken these words, Zeezrom began to tremble more exceedingly, for he was convinced more and more of the power of God; and he was also convinced that Alma and Amulek had a knowledge of him, for he was convinced that they aknew the thoughts and intents of his heart; for power was given unto them that they might know of these things according to the spirit of prophecy.
And Zeezrom began to inquire of them diligently, that he might know more concerning the kingdom of God.
And he said unto Alma: What does this mean which Amulek hath spoken concerning the resurrection of the dead, that all shall rise from the dead, both the ajust and the unjust, and are brought to stand before God to be bjudged according to their works?
And now Alma began to expound these things unto him, saying: It is given unto many to aknow the bmysteries of God; nevertheless they are laid under a strict command that they shall not impart conly according to the portion of his word which he doth grant unto the children of men, according to the heed and diligence which they give unto him.
And therefore, he that will aharden his heart, the same receiveth the blesser portion of the word; and he that will cnot harden his heart, to him is dgiven the greater portion of the word, until it is given unto him to know the mysteries of God until he know them in full.
And they that will harden their hearts, to them is given the lesser aportion of the word until they bknow nothing concerning his mysteries; and then they are taken captive by the devil, and led by his will down to destruction.
Now this is what is meant by the cchains of dhell.
And Amulek hath spoken plainly concerning adeath, and being raised from this mortality to a state of immortality, and being brought before the bar of God, to be bjudged according to our works.
Then if our hearts have been hardened, yea, if we have hardened our hearts against the word, insomuch that it has not been found in us, then will our state be awful, for then we shall be condemned.
For our awords will condemn us, yea, all our works will condemn us; we shall not be found spotless; and our thoughts will also condemn us; and in this awful state we shall not dare to look up to our God; and we would fain be glad if we could command the rocks and the bmountains to fall upon us to chide us from his presence.
But this cannot be; we must come forth and stand before him in his glory, and in his power, and in his might, majesty, and dominion, and acknowledge to our everlasting ashame that all his bjudgments are just; that he is just in all his works, and that he is merciful unto the children of men, and that he has all power to save every man that believeth on his name and bringeth forth fruit meet for repentance.
And now behold, I say unto you then cometh a death, even a second adeath, which is a spiritual death; then is a time that whosoever dieth in his sins, as to a temporal bdeath, shall also cdie a spiritual death; yea, he shall die as to things pertaining unto righteousness.
Then is the time when their torments shall be as a alake of fire and brimstone, whose flame ascendeth up forever and ever; and then is the time that they shall be chained down to an everlasting destruction, according to the power and captivity of Satan, he having subjected them according to his will.
Then, I say unto you, they shall be as though there had been ano redemption made; for they cannot be redeemed according to God’s justice; and they cannot bdie, seeing there is no more corruption.
Now it came to pass that when Alma had made an end of speaking these words, the people began to be more astonished; But there was one Antionah, who was a chief ruler among them, came forth and said unto him: What is this that thou hast said, that man should rise from the dead and be changed from this mortal to an aimmortal state, that the soul can never die?
What does the scripture mean, which saith that God placed acherubim and a flaming sword on the east of the garden of bEden, lest our first parents should enter and partake of the fruit of the tree of life, and live forever?
And thus we see that there was no possible chance that they should live forever.
Now Alma said unto him: This is the thing which I was about to explain.
Now we see that Adam did afall by the partaking of the forbidden bfruit, according to the word of God; and thus we see, that by his fall, all mankind became a clost and fallen people.
And now behold, I say unto you that if it had been possible for Adam to have apartaken of the fruit of the tree of life at that time, there would have been no death, and the word would have been void, making God a liar, for he said: bIf thou eat thou shalt surely die.
And we see that adeath comes upon mankind, yea, the death which has been spoken of by Amulek, which is the temporal death; nevertheless there was a space granted unto bman in which he might repent; therefore this life became a cprobationary state; a time to dprepare to meet God; a time to prepare for that endless state which has been spoken of by us, which is after the resurrection of the dead.
Now, if it had not been for the plan of redemption, which was laid from the foundation of the world, there could have been no aresurrection of the dead; but there was a plan of bredemption laid, which shall bring to pass the resurrection of the dead, of which has been spoken.
And now behold, if it were possible that our first parents could have gone forth and partaken of the atree of life they would have been forever miserable, having no preparatory state; and thus the bplan of redemption would have been frustrated, and the word of God would have been void, taking none effect.
But behold, it was not so; but it was aappointed unto men that they must die; and after death, they must come to bjudgment, even that same judgment of which we have spoken, which is the end.
And after God had appointed that these things should come unto man, behold, then he saw that it was expedient that man should know concerning the things whereof he had appointed unto them; Therefore he sent aangels to converse with them, who caused men to behold of his glory.
And they began from that time forth to call on his name; therefore God aconversed with men, and made known unto them the bplan of redemption, which had been prepared from the cfoundation of the world; and this he made known unto them according to their faith and repentance and their dholy works.
Wherefore, he gave acommandments unto men, they having first transgressed the bfirst commandments as to things which were temporal, and becoming as gods, cknowing good from evil, placing themselves in a state to dact, or being placed in a state to act according to their wills and pleasures, whether to do evil or to do good— Therefore God gave unto them commandments, after having made aknown unto them the plan of redemption, that they should not do evil, the penalty thereof being a second bdeath, which was an everlasting cdeath as to things pertaining unto righteousness; for on such the plan of redemption could have no power, for the works of djustice could not be destroyed, according to the supreme egoodness of God.
But God did call on men, in the name of his Son, (this being the aplan of redemption which was laid) saying: If ye will brepent, and harden not your hearts, then will I have mercy upon you, through mine Only Begotten Son; Therefore, whosoever repenteth, and hardeneth not his heart, he shall have claim on amercy through mine Only Begotten Son, unto a bremission of his sins; and these shall enter into my crest.
And whosoever will harden his heart and will do ainiquity, behold, I swear in my wrath that he shall not enter into my rest.
And now, my brethren, behold I say unto you, that if ye will harden your hearts ye shall not enter into the rest of the Lord; therefore your iniquity aprovoketh him that he sendeth down his bwrath upon you as in the cfirst provocation, yea, according to his word in the last provocation as well as the first, to the everlasting ddestruction of your souls; therefore, according to his word, unto the last death, as well as the first.
And now, my brethren, seeing we know these things, and they are true, let us repent, and harden not our hearts, that we aprovoke not the Lord our God to pull down his wrath upon us in these his second commandments which he has given unto us; but let us enter into the brest of God, which is prepared according to his word.
 And it came to pass after he had made an end of speaking unto the people many of them did believe on his words, and began to repent, and to search the ascriptures.
But the more part of them were desirous that they might destroy Alma and Amulek; for they were angry with Alma, because of the aplainness of his words unto Zeezrom; and they also said that Amulek had blied unto them, and had reviled against their law and also against their lawyers and judges.
And they were also angry with Alma and Amulek; and because they had atestified so plainly against their wickedness, they sought to bput them away privily.
But it came to pass that they did not; but they took them and bound them with strong cords, and took them before the chief judge of the land.
And the people went forth and witnessed against them—testifying that they had reviled against the law, and their lawyers and judges of the land, and also of all the people that were in the land; and also testified that there was but one God, and that he should send his Son among the people, but he should anot save them; and many such things did the people testify against Alma and Amulek.
Now this was done before the chief judge of the land.
And it came to pass that Zeezrom was astonished at the words which had been spoken; and he also knew concerning the ablindness of the minds, which he had caused among the people by his blying words; and his soul began to be charrowed up under a dconsciousness of his own guilt; yea, he began to be encircled about by the pains of hell.
And it came to pass that he began to cry unto the people, saying: Behold, I am aguilty, and these men are spotless before God.
And he began to plead for them from that time forth; but they reviled him, saying: Art thou also possessed with the devil?
And they spit upon him, and bcast him out from among them, and also all those who believed in the words which had been spoken by Alma and Amulek; and they cast them out, and sent men to cast stones at them.
And they brought their wives and children together, and whosoever believed or had been taught to believe in the word of God they caused that they should be acast into the fire; and they also brought forth their records which contained the holy scriptures, and cast them into the fire also, that they might be bburned and destroyed by fire.
And it came to pass that they took Alma and Amulek, and carried them forth to the place of amartyrdom, that they might witness the destruction of those who were consumed by fire.
And when Amulek saw the pains of the women and children who were consuming in the fire, he also was pained; and he said unto Alma: How can we witness this awful scene?
Therefore let us stretch forth our hands, and exercise the apower of God which is in us, and save them from the flames.
But Alma said unto him: The Spirit constraineth me that I must not stretch forth mine hand; for behold the Lord receiveth them up unto himself, in aglory; and he doth suffer that they may do this thing, or that the people may do this thing unto them, according to the hardness of their hearts, that the bjudgments which he shall exercise upon them in his wrath may be just; and the cblood of the dinnocent shall stand as a witness against them, yea, and cry mightily against them at the last day.
Now Amulek said unto Alma: Behold, perhaps they will burn us also.
And Alma said: Be it according to the will of the Lord.
But, behold, our work is not finished; therefore they burn us not.
Now it came to pass that when the bodies of those who had been cast into the fire were consumed, and also the records which were cast in with them, the chief judge of the land came and stood before Alma and Amulek, as they were bound; and he smote them with his hand upon their acheeks, and said unto them: After what ye have seen, will ye preach again unto this people, that they shall be cast into a blake of fire and brimstone?
Behold, ye see that ye had not power to save those who had been cast into the fire; neither has God saved them because they were of thy faith.
And the judge smote them again upon their cheeks, and asked: What say ye for yourselves?
Now this judge was after the order and faith of aNehor, who slew Gideon.
And it came to pass that Alma and Amulek answered him anothing; and he smote them again, and delivered them to the officers to be bcast into prison.
And when they had been cast into prison three days, there came many alawyers, and judges, and priests, and teachers, who were of the profession of Nehor; and they came in unto the prison to see them, and they questioned them about many words; but they answered them nothing.
And it came to pass that the judge stood before them, and said: Why do ye not answer the words of this people?
Know ye not that I have apower to deliver you up unto the flames?
And he bcommanded them to speak; but they answered nothing.
And it came to pass that they departed and went their ways, but came again on the morrow; and the judge also smote them again on their cheeks.
And many came forth also, and smote them, saying: Will ye stand again and judge this people, and condemn our law?
If ye have such great power why do ye not adeliver yourselves?
And many such things did they say unto them, gnashing their teeth upon them, and spitting upon them, and saying: How shall we look when we are damned?
And many such things, yea, all manner of such things did they say unto them; and thus they did amock them for many days.
And they did withhold food from them that they might hunger, and water that they might thirst; and they also did take from them their clothes that they were naked; and thus they were bbound with strong cords, and confined in cprison.
And it came to pass after they had thus suffered for many days, (and it was on the twelfth day, in the tenth month, in the tenth year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi) that the chief judge over the land of aAmmonihah and many of their teachers and their lawyers went in unto the prison where Alma and Amulek were bound with cords.
And the chief judge stood before them, and smote them again, and said unto them: If ye have the apower of God deliver yourselves from these bands, and then we will believe that the Lord will destroy this people according to your words.
And it came to pass that they all went forth and smote them, saying the same words, even until the last; and when the last had spoken unto them the apower of God was upon Alma and Amulek, and they rose and stood upon their feet.
And Alma cried, saying: How long shall we suffer these great aafflictions, O Lord?
O Lord, bgive us strength according to our faith which is in Christ, even unto cdeliverance.
And they broke the cords with which they were bound; and when the people saw this, they began to flee, for the fear of destruction had come upon them.
And it came to pass that so great was their fear that they fell to the earth, and did not obtain the outer door of the aprison; and the earth shook mightily, and the walls of the prison were rent in twain, so that they fell to the earth; and the chief judge, and the lawyers, and priests, and teachers, who smote upon Alma and Amulek, were slain by the fall thereof.
And Alma and Amulek came forth out of the prison, and they were not hurt; for the Lord had granted unto them apower, according to their faith which was in Christ.
And they straightway came forth out of the prison; and they were bloosed from their cbands; and the prison had fallen to the earth, and every soul within the walls thereof, save it were Alma and Amulek, was slain; and they straightway came forth into the city.
Now the people having heard a great noise came running together by multitudes to know the cause of it; and when they saw Alma and Amulek coming forth out of the prison, and the walls thereof had fallen to the earth, they were struck with great fear, and fled from the presence of Alma and Amulek even as a goat fleeth with her young from two lions; and thus they did flee from the presence of Alma and Amulek.
 And it came to pass that Alma and Amulek were commanded to depart out of that city; and they departed, and came out even into the land of Sidom; and behold, there they found all the people who had departed out of the land of aAmmonihah, who had been bcast out and stoned, because they believed in the words of Alma.
And they related unto them all that had happened unto their awives and children, and also concerning themselves, and of their bpower of deliverance.
And also Zeezrom lay sick at Sidom, with a burning fever, which was caused by the great tribulations of his mind on account of his awickedness, for he supposed that Alma and Amulek were no more; and he supposed that they had been slain because of his iniquity.
And this great sin, and his many other sins, did harrow up his mind until it did become exceedingly sore, having no deliverance; therefore he began to be scorched with a burning heat.
Now, when he heard that Alma and Amulek were in the land of Sidom, his heart began to take courage; and he sent a message immediately unto them, desiring them to come unto him.
And it came to pass that they went immediately, obeying the message which he had sent unto them; and they went in unto the house unto Zeezrom; and they found him upon his bed, sick, being very low with a burning fever; and his mind also was aexceedingly sore because of his iniquities; and when he saw them he stretched forth his hand, and besought them that they would heal him.
And it came to pass that Alma said unto him, taking him by the hand: aBelievest thou in the power of Christ unto salvation?
And he answered and said: Yea, I believe all the words that thou hast taught.
And Alma said: If thou believest in the redemption of Christ thou canst be ahealed.
And he said: Yea, I believe according to thy words.
And then Alma cried unto the Lord, saying: O Lord our God, have amercy on this man, and bheal him according to his faith which is in Christ.
And when Alma had said these words, aZeezrom leaped upon his feet, and began to walk; and this was done to the great astonishment of all the people; and the knowledge of this went forth throughout all the land of Sidom.
And Alma baptized Zeezrom unto the Lord; and he began from that time forth to preach unto the people.
And Alma established a church in the land of Sidom, and consecrated apriests and bteachers in the land, to baptize unto the Lord whosoever were desirous to be baptized.
And it came to pass that they were many; for they did flock in from all the region round about Sidom, and were baptized.
But as to the people that were in the land of Ammonihah, they yet remained a hard-hearted and a stiffnecked people; and they repented not of their sins, aascribing all the power of Alma and Amulek to the devil; for they were of the profession of bNehor, and did not believe in the repentance of their sins.
And it came to pass that Alma and Amulek, Amulek having aforsaken all his gold, and silver, and his precious things, which were in the land of Ammonihah, for the word of God, he being brejected by those who were once his friends and also by his father and his kindred; Therefore, after Alma having established the church at Sidom, seeing a great acheck, yea, seeing that the people were checked as to the pride of their hearts, and began to bhumble themselves before God, and began to assemble themselves together at their csanctuaries to dworship God before the ealtar, fwatching and praying continually, that they might be delivered from Satan, and from gdeath, and from destruction— Now as I said, Alma having seen all these things, therefore he took Amulek and came over to the land of Zarahemla, and took him to his aown house, and did administer unto him in his tribulations, and bstrengthened him in the Lord.
And thus ended the tenth year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi.
 And it came to pass in the eleventh year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi, on the fifth day of the second month, there having been much peace in the land of Zarahemla, there having been no wars nor contentions for a certain number of years, even until the fifth day of the second month in the eleventh year, there was a cry of war heard throughout the land.
For behold, the armies of the Lamanites had come in upon the wilderness side, into the borders of the land, even into the city of aAmmonihah, and began to slay the people and destroy the city.
And now it came to pass, before the Nephites could raise a sufficient army to drive them out of the land, they had adestroyed the people who were in the city of Ammonihah, and also some around the borders of Noah, and taken others captive into the wilderness.
Now it came to pass that the Nephites were desirous to obtain those who had been carried away captive into the wilderness.
Therefore, he that had been appointed chief captain over the armies of the Nephites, (and his name was Zoram, and he had two sons, Lehi and Aha)—now Zoram and his two sons, knowing that Alma was high priest over the church, and having heard that he had the spirit of prophecy, therefore they went unto him and desired of him to know whither the Lord would that they should go into the wilderness in search of their brethren, who had been taken captive by the Lamanites.
And it came to pass that Alma ainquired of the Lord concerning the matter.
And Alma returned and said unto them: Behold, the Lamanites will cross the river Sidon in the south wilderness, away up beyond the borders of the land of bManti.
And behold there shall ye meet them, on the east of the river Sidon, and there the Lord will deliver unto thee thy brethren who have been taken captive by the Lamanites.
And it came to pass that Zoram and his sons crossed over the river Sidon, with their armies, and marched away beyond the borders of Manti into the south wilderness, which was on the east side of the river Sidon.
And they came upon the armies of the Lamanites, and the Lamanites were scattered and driven into the wilderness; and they took their brethren who had been taken captive by the Lamanites, and there was not one soul of them had been lost that were taken captive.
And they were brought by their brethren to possess their own lands.
And thus ended the eleventh year of the judges, the Lamanites having been driven out of the land, and the people of Ammonihah were adestroyed; yea, bevery living soul of the Ammonihahites was cdestroyed, and also their dgreat city, which they said God could not destroy, because of its greatness.
But behold, in aone day it was left desolate; and the bcarcasses were mangled by dogs and wild beasts of the wilderness.
Nevertheless, after many days their adead bodies were heaped up upon the face of the earth, and they were covered with a shallow covering.
And now so great was the scent thereof that the people did not go in to possess the land of Ammonihah for many years.
And it was called Desolation of bNehors; for they were of the profession of Nehor, who were slain; and their lands remained desolate.
And the Lamanites did not come again to war against the Nephites until the fourteenth year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi.
And thus for three years did the people of Nephi have continual peace in all the land.
And Alma and Amulek went forth preaching repentance to the people in their atemples, and in their bsanctuaries, and also in their csynagogues, which were built after the manner of the Jews.
And as many as would hear their words, unto them they did impart the word of God, without any arespect of persons, continually.
And thus did Alma and Amulek go forth, and also many more who had been chosen for the work, to preach the word throughout all the land.
And the establishment of the church became general throughout the land, in all the region round about, among all the people of the Nephites.
And there was ano inequality among them; the Lord did pour out his Spirit on all the face of the land to prepare the minds of the children of men, or to prepare their bhearts to receive the word which should be taught among them at the time of his coming— That they might not be hardened against the word, that they might not be unbelieving, and go on to destruction, but that they might receive the word with joy, and as a abranch be grafted into the true vine, that they might enter into the brest of the Lord their God.
Now those apriests who did go forth among the people did preach against all blyings, and cdeceivings, and denvyings, and estrifes, and malice, and revilings, and stealing, robbing, plundering, murdering, committing adultery, and all manner of lasciviousness, crying that these things ought not so to be— Holding forth things which must shortly come; yea, holding forth the acoming of the Son of God, his sufferings and death, and also the resurrection of the dead.
And many of the people did inquire concerning the place where the Son of God should come; and they were taught that he would aappear unto them bafter his resurrection; and this the people did hear with great joy and gladness.
And now after the church had been established throughout all the land—having got the avictory over the devil, and the word of God being preached in its purity in all the land, and the Lord pouring out his blessings upon the people—thus ended the fourteenth year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi.
 And now it came to pass that as Alma was journeying from the land of Gideon southward, away to the land of aManti, behold, to his astonishment, he bmet with the csons of Mosiah journeying towards the land of Zarahemla.
Now these sons of Mosiah were with Alma at the time the angel afirst appeared unto him; therefore Alma did rejoice exceedingly to see his brethren; and what added more to his joy, they were still his brethren in the Lord; yea, and they had waxed strong in the knowledge of the truth; for they were men of a sound understanding and they had bsearched the scriptures diligently, that they might know the word of God.
But this is not all; they had given themselves to much prayer, and afasting; therefore they had the spirit of prophecy, and the spirit of revelation, and when they taught, they taught with bpower and authority of God.
And they had been teaching the word of God for the space of fourteen years among the Lamanites, having had much asuccess in bringing many to the bknowledge of the truth; yea, by the power of their words many were brought before the altar of God, to call on his name and cconfess their sins before him.
Now these are the circumstances which attended them in their journeyings, for they had many afflictions; they did suffer much, both in body and in mind, such as hunger, thirst and fatigue, and also much alabor in the spirit.
Now these were their journeyings: Having ataken leave of their father, Mosiah, in the bfirst year of the judges; having crefused the kingdom which their father was desirous to confer upon them, and also this was the minds of the people; Nevertheless they departed out of the land of Zarahemla, and took their swords, and their spears, and their bows, and their arrows, and their slings; and this they did that they might aprovide food for themselves while in the wilderness.
And thus they departed into the wilderness with their numbers which they had aselected, to go up to the land of Nephi, to preach the word of God unto the Lamanites.
And it came to pass that they journeyed many days in the wilderness, and they fasted much and aprayed much that the Lord would grant unto them a portion of his Spirit to go with them, and abide with them, that they might be an binstrument in the hands of God to bring, if it were possible, their brethren, the Lamanites, to the knowledge of the truth, to the knowledge of the baseness of the ctraditions of their fathers, which were not correct.
And it came to pass that the Lord did avisit them with his bSpirit, and said unto them: Be ccomforted.
And they were comforted.
And the Lord said unto them also: Go forth among the Lamanites, thy brethren, and establish my word; yet ye shall be apatient in long-suffering and afflictions, that ye may show forth good bexamples unto them in me, and I will make an instrument of thee in my hands unto the salvation of many souls.
And it came to pass that the hearts of the sons of Mosiah, and also those who were with them, took courage to go forth unto the Lamanites to declare unto them the word of God.
And it came to pass when they had arrived in the borders of the land of the Lamanites, that they aseparated themselves and departed one from another, trusting in the Lord that they should meet again at the close of their bharvest; for they supposed that great was the work which they had undertaken.
And assuredly it was great, for they had undertaken to preach the word of God to a awild and a hardened and a ferocious people; a people who delighted in murdering the Nephites, and robbing and plundering them; and their hearts were set upon riches, or upon gold and silver, and precious stones; yet they sought to obtain these things by murdering and plundering, that they might not labor for them with their own hands.
Thus they were a very indolent people, many of whom did worship idols, and the acurse of God had fallen upon them because of the btraditions of their fathers; notwithstanding the promises of the Lord were extended unto them on the conditions of repentance.
Therefore, this was the acause for which the sons of Mosiah had undertaken the work, that perhaps they might bring them unto repentance; that perhaps they might bring them to know of the plan of redemption.
Therefore they separated themselves one from another, and went forth among them, every man alone, according to the word and power of God which was given unto him.
Now Ammon being the chief among them, or rather he did administer unto them, and he departed from them, after having ablessed them according to their several stations, having imparted the word of God unto them, or administered unto them before his departure; and thus they took their several journeys throughout the land.
And Ammon went to the land of aIshmael, the land being called after the sons of bIshmael, who also became Lamanites.
And as Ammon entered the land of Ishmael, the Lamanites took him and abound him, as was their custom to bind all the Nephites who fell into their hands, and carry them before the king; and thus it was left to the pleasure of the king to slay them, or to retain them in captivity, or to cast them into prison, or to cast them out of his land, according to his will and pleasure.
And thus Ammon was carried before the king who was over the land of Ishmael; and his name was Lamoni; and he was a descendant of Ishmael.
And the king inquired of Ammon if it were his desire to dwell in the land among the Lamanites, or among his people.
And Ammon said unto him: Yea, I desire to adwell among this people for a time; yea, and perhaps until the day I die.
And it came to pass that king Lamoni was much pleased with Ammon, and caused that his bands should be loosed; and he would that Ammon should take one of his daughters to wife.
But Ammon said unto him: Nay, but I will be thy servant.
Therefore Ammon became a aservant to king Lamoni.
And it came to pass that he was set among other servants to watch the flocks of Lamoni, according to the custom of the Lamanites.
And after he had been in the service of the king three days, as he was with the Lamanitish servants going forth with their flocks to the place of awater, which was called the water of Sebus, and all the Lamanites drive their flocks hither, that they may have water— Therefore, as Ammon and the servants of the king were driving forth their flocks to this place of water, behold, a certain number of the Lamanites, who had been with their flocks to water, stood and ascattered the flocks of Ammon and the servants of the king, and they scattered them insomuch that they fled many ways.
Now the servants of the king began to murmur, saying: Now the king will slay us, as he has our brethren because their flocks were scattered by the wickedness of these men.
And they began to weep exceedingly, saying: Behold, our flocks are scattered already.
Now they wept because of the fear of being slain.
Now when Ammon saw this his heart was swollen within him with joy; for, said he, I will show forth my power unto these my fellow-servants, or the power which is in me, in restoring these flocks unto the king, that I may win the hearts of these my fellow-servants, that I may lead them to abelieve in my words.
And now, these were the thoughts of Ammon, when he saw the afflictions of those whom he termed to be his brethren.
And it came to pass that he flattered them by his words, saying: My brethren, be of good cheer and let us go in search of the flocks, and we will gather them together and bring them back unto the place of water; and thus we will preserve the flocks unto the king and he will not slay us.
And it came to pass that they went in search of the flocks, and they did follow Ammon, and they rushed forth with much swiftness and did head the flocks of the king, and did gather them together again to the place of water.
And those men again stood to scatter their flocks; but Ammon said unto his brethren: Encircle the flocks round about that they flee not; and I go and contend with these men who do scatter our flocks.
Therefore, they did as Ammon commanded them, and he went forth and stood to contend with those who stood by the waters of Sebus; and they were in number not a few.
Therefore they did not fear Ammon, for they supposed that one of their men could slay him according to their pleasure, for they knew not that the Lord had promised Mosiah that he would adeliver his sons out of their hands; neither did they know anything concerning the Lord; therefore they delighted in the destruction of their brethren; and for this cause they stood to scatter the flocks of the king.
But aAmmon stood forth and began to cast stones at them with his sling; yea, with mighty power he did sling stones amongst them; and thus he slew a bcertain number of them insomuch that they began to be astonished at his power; nevertheless they were angry because of the slain of their brethren, and they were determined that he should fall; therefore, seeing that they ccould not hit him with their stones, they came forth with clubs to slay him.
But behold, every man that lifted his club to smite Ammon, he smote off their arms with his sword; for he did withstand their blows by smiting their arms with the edge of his sword, insomuch that they began to be astonished, and began to flee before him; yea, and they were not few in number; and he caused them to flee by the strength of his arm.
Now six of them had fallen by the sling, but he aslew none save it were their leader with his sword; and he smote off as many of their arms as were lifted against him, and they were not a few.
And when he had driven them afar off, he returned and they watered their flocks and returned them to the pasture of the king, and then went in unto the king, bearing the arms which had been smitten off by the sword of Ammon, of those who sought to slay him; and they were carried in unto the king for a testimony of the things which they had done.
 And it came to pass that king Lamoni caused that his aservants should stand forth and testify to all the things which they had seen concerning the matter.
And when they had all testified to the things which they had seen, and he had learned of the faithfulness of Ammon in preserving his flocks, and also of his agreat power in contending against those who sought to slay him, he was astonished exceedingly, and said: Surely, this is more than a man.
Behold, is not this the Great Spirit who doth send such great punishments upon this people, because of their murders?
And they answered the king, and said: Whether he be the Great Spirit or a man, we know not; but this much we do know, that he acannot be slain by the enemies of the king; neither can they bscatter the king’s flocks when he is with us, because of his expertness and cgreat strength; therefore, we know that he is a friend to the king.
And now, O king, we do not believe that a man has such great power, for we know he cannot be slain.
And now, when the king heard these words, he said unto them: Now I know that it is the Great Spirit; and he has come down at this time to preserve your lives, that I might not aslay you as I did your brethren.
Now this is the Great Spirit of whom our fathers have spoken.
Now this was the atradition of Lamoni, which he had received from his father, that there was a bGreat Spirit.
Notwithstanding they believed in a Great Spirit, they supposed that cwhatsoever they did was right; nevertheless, Lamoni began to fear exceedingly, with fear lest he had done wrong in slaying his servants; For he had slain many of them because their brethren had scattered their flocks at the place of water; and thus, because they had had their flocks scattered they were slain.
Now it was the practice of these Lamanites to stand by the awaters of Sebus to scatter the flocks of the people, that thereby they might drive away many that were scattered unto their own land, it being a practice of plunder among them.
And it came to pass that king Lamoni inquired of his servants, saying: Where is this man that has such great power?
And they said unto him: Behold, he is feeding thy ahorses.
Now the king had commanded his servants, previous to the time of the watering of their flocks, that they should prepare his horses and chariots, and conduct him forth to the land of Nephi; for there had been a bgreat cfeast appointed at the land of Nephi, by the father of Lamoni, who was king over all the land.
Now when king Lamoni heard that Ammon was preparing his horses and his achariots he was more astonished, because of the faithfulness of Ammon, saying: Surely there has not been any servant among all my servants that has been so faithful as this man; for even he doth remember all my commandments to execute them.
Now I surely know that this is the Great Spirit, and I would desire him that he come in unto me, but I durst not.
And it came to pass that when Ammon had made ready the horses and the chariots for the king and his servants, he went in unto the king, and he saw that the acountenance of the king was changed; therefore he was about to return out of his presence.
And one of the king’s servants said unto him, aRabbanah, which is, being interpreted, powerful or great king, considering their kings to be powerful; and thus he said unto him: Rabbanah, the king desireth thee to stay.
Therefore Ammon turned himself unto the king, and said unto him: What wilt thou that I should do for thee, O king?
And the king answered him not for the space of an ahour, according to their time, for he knew not what he should say unto him.
And it came to pass that Ammon said unto him again: What desirest thou of me?
But the king answered him not.
And it came to pass that Ammon, being filled with the aSpirit of God, therefore he perceived the bthoughts of the king.
And he said unto him: Is it because thou hast heard that I defended thy servants and thy flocks, and slew cseven of their brethren with the sling and with the sword, and smote off the arms of others, in order to defend thy flocks and thy servants; behold, is it this that causeth thy marvelings?
I say unto you, what is it, that thy marvelings are so great?
Behold, I am a aman, and am thy servant; therefore, whatsoever thou desirest which is right, that will I do.
Now when the king had heard these words, he marveled again, for he beheld that Ammon could adiscern his thoughts; but notwithstanding this, king Lamoni did open his mouth, and said unto him: Who art thou?
Art thou that Great Spirit, who bknows all things?
Ammon answered and said unto him: I am not.
And the king said: How knowest thou the thoughts of my heart?
Thou mayest speak boldly, and tell me concerning these things; and also tell me by what power ye slew and smote off the arms of my brethren that scattered my flocks— And now, aif thou wilt tell me concerning these things, whatsoever thou desirest I will give unto thee; and if it were needed, I would guard thee with my armies; but I know that thou art more powerful than all they; nevertheless, whatsoever thou desirest of me I will grant it unto thee.
Now Ammon being awise, yet harmless, he said unto Lamoni: Wilt thou hearken unto my words, if I tell thee by what power I do these things?
And this is the thing that I desire of thee.
And the king answered him, and said: Yea, I awill believe all thy words.
And thus he was caught with bguile.
And Ammon began to speak unto him with aboldness, and said unto him: Believest thou that there is a God?
And he answered, and said unto him: I do not know what that meaneth.
And then Ammon said: Believest thou that there is a aGreat Spirit?
And he said, Yea.
And Ammon said: This is God.
And Ammon said unto him again: Believest thou that this Great Spirit, who is God, created all things which are in heaven and in the earth?
And he said: Yea, I believe that he created all things which are in the earth; but I do not know the heavens.
And Ammon said unto him: The heavens is a place where God dwells and all his holy angels.
And king Lamoni said: Is it above the earth?
And Ammon said: Yea, and he looketh down upon all the children of men; and he aknows all the thoughts and bintents of the heart; for by his hand were they all created from the beginning.
And king Lamoni said: I believe all these things which thou hast spoken.
Art thou asent from God?
Ammon said unto him: I am a aman; and man in the beginning was created after the image of God, and I am called by his bHoly Spirit to teach these things unto this people, that they may be brought to a knowledge of that which is just and true; And a portion of that aSpirit dwelleth in me, which giveth me bknowledge, and also power according to my faith and desires which are in God.
Now when Ammon had said these words, he began at the creation of the world, and also the creation of Adam, and told him all the things concerning the fall of man, and arehearsed and laid before him the brecords and the holy scriptures of the people, which had been spoken by the cprophets, even down to the time that their father, Lehi, left Jerusalem.
And he also rehearsed unto them (for it was unto the king and to his servants) all the journeyings of their fathers in the wilderness, and all their sufferings with hunger and thirst, and their travail, and so forth.
And he also rehearsed unto them concerning the arebellions of Laman and Lemuel, and the sons of Ishmael, yea, all their rebellions did he relate unto them; and he expounded unto them all the brecords and scriptures from the time that Lehi left Jerusalem down to the present time.
But this is not all; for he aexpounded unto them the bplan of redemption, which was prepared from the foundation of the world; and he also made known unto them concerning the coming of Christ, and all the works of the Lord did he make known unto them.
And it came to pass that after he had said all these things, and expounded them to the king, that the king abelieved all his words.
And he began to cry unto the Lord, saying: O Lord, have mercy; according to thy abundant amercy which thou hast had upon the people of Nephi, have upon me, and my people.
And now, when he had said this, he afell unto the earth, bas if he were dead.
And it came to pass that his aservants took him and carried him in unto his wife, and laid him upon a bed; and he lay as if he were dead for the space of two days and two nights; and his wife, and his sons, and his daughters mourned over him, after the manner of the Lamanites, greatly lamenting his loss.
 And it came to pass that after two days and two nights they were about to take his abody and lay it in a sepulchre, which they had made for the purpose of burying their dead.
Now the queen having heard of the fame of Ammon, therefore she sent and desired that he should come in unto her.
And it came to pass that Ammon did as he was commanded, and went in unto the queen, and desired to know what she would that he should do.
And she said unto him: The aservants of my husband have made it known unto me that thou art a bprophet of a holy God, and that thou hast cpower to do many mighty works in his name; Therefore, if this is the case, I would that ye should go in and see my husband, for he has been laid upon his bed for the space of two days and two nights; and some say that he is not dead, but others say that he is dead and that he astinketh, and that he ought to be placed in the sepulchre; but as for myself, to me he doth not stink.
Now, this was what Ammon desired, for he knew that king Lamoni was under the power of God; he knew that the dark aveil of bunbelief was being cast away from his mind, and the clight which did light up his mind, which was the light of the glory of God, which was a marvelous light of his goodness—yea, this light had infused such joy into his soul, the cloud of darkness having been dispelled, and that the light of everlasting life was lit up in his soul, yea, he knew that this had dovercome his natural frame, and he was carried away in God— Therefore, what the queen desired of him was his only desire.
Therefore, he went in to see the king according as the queen had desired him; and he saw the king, and he knew that he was not dead.
And he said unto the queen: He is not dead, but he sleepeth in God, and on the morrow he shall rise again; therefore bury him not.
And Ammon said unto her: aBelievest thou this?
And she said unto him: I have had no witness save thy word, and the word of our servants; nevertheless I bbelieve that it shall be according as thou hast said.
And Ammon said unto her: Blessed art thou because of thy exceeding faith; I say unto thee, woman, there has not been such great faith among all the people of the aNephites.
And it came to pass that she watched over the bed of her husband, from that time even until that time on the morrow which Ammon had appointed that he should rise.
And it came to pass that he arose, according to the words of Ammon; and as he arose, he stretched forth his hand unto the woman, and said: Blessed be the name of God, and blessed art thou.
For as sure as thou livest, behold, I have aseen my Redeemer; and he shall come forth, and be bborn of a cwoman, and he shall redeem all mankind who believe on his name.
Now, when he had said these words, his heart was swollen within him, and he sunk again with joy; and the queen also sunk down, being overpowered by the Spirit.
Now Ammon seeing the Spirit of the Lord poured out according to his aprayers upon the Lamanites, his brethren, who had been the cause of so much mourning among the Nephites, or among all the people of God because of their iniquities and their btraditions, he fell upon his knees, and began to pour out his soul in prayer and thanksgiving to God for what he had done for his brethren; and he was also overpowered with cjoy; and thus they all three had dsunk to the earth.
Now, when the servants of the king had seen that they had fallen, they also began to cry unto God, for the fear of the Lord had come upon them also, for it was athey who had stood before the king and testified unto him concerning the great power of Ammon.
And it came to pass that they did call on the name of the Lord, in their might, even until they had all fallen to the earth, save it were one of the Lamanitish awomen, whose name was Abish, she having been converted unto the Lord for many years, on account of a remarkable vision of her father— Thus, having been converted to the Lord, and never having made it aknown, therefore, when she saw that all the servants of Lamoni had bfallen to the earth, and also her mistress, the queen, and the king, and Ammon lay cprostrate upon the earth, she knew that it was the power of God; and supposing that this opportunity, by making known unto the people what had happened among them, that by beholding this scene it would dcause them to believe in the power of God, therefore she ran forth from house to house, making it known unto the people.
And they began to assemble themselves together unto the house of the king.
And there came a multitude, and to their astonishment, they beheld the king, and the queen, and their servants prostrate upon the earth, and they all lay there as though they were dead; and they also saw Ammon, and behold, he was a Nephite.
And now the people began to murmur among themselves; some saying that it was a great evil that had come upon them, or upon the king and his house, because he had suffered that the Nephite should aremain in the land.
But others rebuked them, saying: The king hath brought this evil upon his house, because he slew his servants who had had their flocks scattered at the awaters of Sebus.
And they were also rebuked by those men who had stood at the waters of Sebus and ascattered the flocks which belonged to the king, for they were angry with Ammon because of the number which he had slain of their brethren at the waters of Sebus, while defending the flocks of the king.
Now, one of them, whose brother had been aslain with the sword of Ammon, being exceedingly angry with Ammon, drew his sword and went forth that he might let it fall upon Ammon, to slay him; and as he lifted the sword to smite him, behold, he fell dead.
Now we see that Ammon could not be slain, for the aLord had said unto Mosiah, his father: I will spare him, and it shall be unto him according to thy faith—therefore, Mosiah btrusted him unto the Lord.
And it came to pass that when the multitude beheld that the man had fallen dead, who lifted the sword to slay Ammon, afear came upon them all, and they durst not put forth their hands to touch him or any of those who had fallen; and they began to marvel again among themselves what could be the cause of this great power, or what all these things could mean.
And it came to pass that there were many among them who said that Ammon was the aGreat Spirit, and others said he was sent by the Great Spirit; But others rebuked them all, saying that he was a amonster, who had been sent from the Nephites to torment them.
And there were some who said that Ammon was sent by the Great Spirit to afflict them because of their iniquities; and that it was the Great Spirit that had always attended the Nephites, who had ever delivered them out of their hands; and they said that it was this Great Spirit who had destroyed so many of their brethren, the Lamanites.
And thus the contention began to be exceedingly sharp among them.
And while they were thus contending, the awoman servant who had caused the multitude to be gathered together came, and when she saw the contention which was among the multitude she was exceedingly sorrowful, even unto tears.
And it came to pass that she went and took the queen by the ahand, that perhaps she might raise her from the ground; and as soon as she touched her hand she arose and stood upon her feet, and cried with a loud voice, saying: O blessed Jesus, who has saved me from an bawful hell!
O blessed God, have cmercy on this people!
And when she had said this, she clasped her hands, being filled with joy, speaking many words which were not understood; and when she had done this, she took the king, Lamoni, by the hand, and behold he arose and stood upon his feet.
And he, immediately, seeing the contention among his people, went forth and began to rebuke them, and to teach them the awords which he had heard from the mouth of Ammon; and as many as heard his words believed, and were converted unto the Lord.
But there were amany among them who would not hear his words; therefore they went their way.
And it came to pass that when Ammon arose he also administered unto them, and also did all the servants of Lamoni; and they did all declare unto the people the selfsame thing—that their hearts had been achanged; that they had no more desire to do bevil.
And behold, many did declare unto the people that they had seen aangels and had conversed with them; and thus they had told them things of God, and of his righteousness.
And it came to pass that there were many that did abelieve in their words; and as many as did believe were baptized; and they became a righteous people, and they did establish a church among them.
And thus the work of the Lord did commence among the Lamanites; thus the Lord did begin to pour out his aSpirit upon them; and we see that his arm is extended to ball people who will repent and believe on his name.
 And it came to pass in the commencement of the fifth year of their reign there began to be a contention among the people; for a certain aman, being called Amlici, he being a very cunning man, yea, a wise man as to the wisdom of the world, he being after the order of the man that slew bGideon by the sword, who was executed according to the law— Now this Amlici had, by his cunning, adrawn away much people after him; even so much that they began to be very powerful; and they began to endeavor to establish Amlici to be a king over the people.
Now this was alarming to the people of the church, and also to all those who had not been drawn away after the persuasions of Amlici; for they knew that according to their law that such things must be established by the avoice of the people.
Therefore, if it were possible that Amlici should gain the voice of the people, he, being a wicked man, would adeprive them of their rights and privileges of the church; for it was his intent to destroy the church of God.
And it came to pass that the people assembled themselves together throughout all the land, every man according to his mind, whether it were for or against Amlici, in separate bodies, having much dispute and wonderful acontentions one with another.
And thus they did assemble themselves together to cast in their avoices concerning the matter; and they were laid before the judges.
And it came to pass that the avoice of the people came against Amlici, that he was not made king over the people.
Now this did cause much joy in the hearts of those who were against him; but Amlici did stir up those who were in his favor to anger against those who were not in his favor.
And it came to pass that they gathered themselves together, and did aconsecrate Amlici to be their king.
Now when Amlici was made king over them he commanded them that they should take up arms against their brethren; and this he did that he might subject them to him.
Now the people of Amlici were distinguished by the name of Amlici, being called aAmlicites; and the remainder were bcalled Nephites, or the people of God.
Therefore the people of the Nephites were aware of the intent of the Amlicites, and therefore they did prepare to meet them; yea, they did arm themselves with swords, and with cimeters, and with bows, and with arrows, and with stones, and with slings, and with all manner of aweapons of war, of every kind.
And thus they were prepared to meet the Amlicites at the time of their coming.
And there were appointed acaptains, and higher captains, and chief captains, according to their numbers.
And it came to pass that Amlici did arm his men with all manner of weapons of war of every kind; and he also appointed rulers and leaders over his people, to lead them to war against their brethren.
And it came to pass that the Amlicites came upon the hill Amnihu, which was east of the ariver Sidon, which ran by the bland of Zarahemla, and there they began to make war with the Nephites.
Now Alma, being the achief judge and the bgovernor of the people of Nephi, therefore he went up with his people, yea, with his captains, and chief captains, yea, at the head of his armies, against the Amlicites to battle.
And they began to slay the Amlicites upon the hill east of Sidon.
And the Amlicites did contend with the Nephites with great strength, insomuch that many of the Nephites did fall before the Amlicites.
Nevertheless the Lord did strengthen the hand of the Nephites, that they slew the Amlicites with great slaughter, that they began to flee before them.
And it came to pass that the Nephites did pursue the Amlicites all that day, and did slay them with much slaughter, insomuch that there were aslain of the Amlicites twelve thousand five hundred thirty and two souls; and there were slain of the Nephites six thousand five hundred sixty and two souls.
And it came to pass that when Alma could pursue the Amlicites no longer he caused that his people should pitch their tents in the avalley of Gideon, the valley being called after that Gideon who was slain by the hand of bNehor with the sword; and in this valley the Nephites did pitch their tents for the night.
And Alma sent spies to follow the remnant of the Amlicites, that he might know of their plans and their plots, whereby he might guard himself against them, that he might preserve his people from being destroyed.
Now those whom he had sent out to watch the camp of the Amlicites were called Zeram, and Amnor, and Manti, and Limher; these were they who went out with their men to watch the camp of the Amlicites.
And it came to pass that on the morrow they returned into the camp of the Nephites in great haste, being greatly astonished, and struck with much fear, saying: Behold, we followed the acamp of the bAmlicites, and to our great astonishment, in the land of Minon, above the land of Zarahemla, in the course of the land of cNephi, we saw a numerous host of the Lamanites; and behold, the Amlicites have joined them; And they are upon our brethren in that land; and they are fleeing before them with their flocks, and their wives, and their children, towards our city; and except we make haste they obtain possession of our city, and our fathers, and our wives, and our children be slain.
And it came to pass that the people of Nephi took their tents, and departed out of the valley of Gideon towards their acity, which was the city of bZarahemla.
And behold, as they were crossing the river Sidon, the Lamanites and the Amlicites, being as anumerous almost, as it were, as the sands of the sea, came upon them to destroy them.
Nevertheless, the Nephites being astrengthened by the hand of the Lord, having prayed mightily to him that he would deliver them out of the hands of their enemies, therefore the Lord did hear their cries, and did strengthen them, and the Lamanites and the Amlicites did fall before them.
And it came to pass that Alma fought with Amlici with the sword, face to face; and they did contend mightily, one with another.
And it came to pass that Alma, being a man of God, being exercised with much afaith, cried, saying: O Lord, have mercy and bspare my life, that I may be an instrument in thy hands to save and preserve this people.
Now when Alma had said these words he contended again with Amlici; and he was strengthened, insomuch that he slew Amlici with the sword.
And he also contended with the king of the Lamanites; but the king of the Lamanites fled back from before Alma and sent his guards to contend with Alma.
But Alma, with his guards, contended with the guards of the king of the Lamanites until he slew and drove them back.
And thus he cleared the ground, or rather the bank, which was on the west of the river Sidon, throwing the bodies of the Lamanites who had been slain into the waters of Sidon, that thereby his people might have room to cross and contend with the Lamanites and the Amlicites on the west side of the river Sidon.
And it came to pass that when they had all crossed the river Sidon that the Lamanites and the Amlicites began to flee before them, notwithstanding they were so numerous that they could not be numbered.
And they fled before the Nephites towards the wilderness which was west and north, away beyond the borders of the land; and the Nephites did pursue them with their might, and did slay them.
Yea, they were met on every hand, and slain and driven, until they were scattered on the west, and on the north, until they had reached the wilderness, which was called Hermounts; and it was that part of the wilderness which was infested by wild and ravenous beasts.
And it came to pass that many died in the wilderness of their wounds, and were devoured by those beasts and also the vultures of the air; and their bones have been found, and have been heaped up on the earth.
 And it came to pass that when they had established a church in that aland, that king Lamoni desired that Ammon should go with him to the land of Nephi, that he might show him unto his father.
And the voice of the Lord came to Ammon, saying: Thou shalt not go up to the land of Nephi, for behold, the king will seek thy life; but thou shalt go to the land of aMiddoni; for behold, thy brother Aaron, and also Muloki and Ammah are in prison.
Now it came to pass that when Ammon had heard this, he said unto Lamoni: Behold, my brother and brethren are in prison at Middoni, and I go that I may deliver them.
Now Lamoni said unto Ammon: I know, in the astrength of the Lord thou canst do all things.
But behold, I will go with thee to the land of Middoni; for the king of the land of Middoni, whose name is Antiomno, is a friend unto me; therefore I go to the land of Middoni, that I may flatter the king of the land, and he will cast thy brethren out of bprison.
Now Lamoni said unto him: Who told thee that thy brethren were in prison?
And Ammon said unto him: No one hath told me, save it be God; and he said unto me—Go and deliver thy brethren, for they are in prison in the land of Middoni.
Now when Lamoni had heard this he caused that his servants should make ready his ahorses and his chariots.
And he said unto Ammon: Come, I will go with thee down to the land of Middoni, and there I will plead with the king that he will cast thy brethren out of prison.
And it came to pass that as Ammon and Lamoni were journeying thither, they met the father of Lamoni, who was king aover all the land.
And behold, the father of Lamoni said unto him: Why did ye anot come to the bfeast on that great day when I made a feast unto my sons, and unto my people?
And he also said: Whither art thou going with this Nephite, who is one of the children of a aliar?
And it came to pass that Lamoni rehearsed unto him whither he was going, for he feared to offend him.
And he also told him all the cause of his tarrying in his own kingdom, that he did not go unto his father to the feast which he had prepared.
And now when Lamoni had rehearsed unto him all these things, behold, to his astonishment, his father was angry with him, and said: Lamoni, thou art going to deliver these Nephites, who are sons of a liar.
Behold, he robbed our fathers; and now his children are also come amongst us that they may, by their cunning and their lyings, deceive us, that they again may rob us of our property.
Now the father of Lamoni commanded him that he should slay Ammon with the sword.
And he also commanded him that he should not go to the land of Middoni, but that he should return with him to the land of aIshmael.
But Lamoni said unto him: I will not slay Ammon, neither will I return to the land of Ishmael, but I go to the land of Middoni that I may release the brethren of Ammon, for I know that they are just men and holy prophets of the true God.
Now when his father had heard these words, he was angry with him, and he drew his sword that he might smite him to the earth.
But Ammon stood forth and said unto him: Behold, thou shalt not slay thy son; nevertheless, it were abetter that he should fall than thee, for behold, he has brepented of his sins; but if thou shouldst fall at this time, in thine anger, thy soul could not be saved.
And again, it is expedient that thou shouldst forbear; for if thou shouldst aslay thy son, he being an innocent man, his blood would cry from the ground to the Lord his God, for vengeance to come upon thee; and perhaps thou wouldst lose thy bsoul.
Now when Ammon had said these words unto him, he answered him, saying: I know that if I should slay my son, that I should shed innocent blood; for it is thou that hast sought to destroy him.
And he stretched forth his hand to slay Ammon.
But Ammon withstood his blows, and also smote his arm that he could not use it.
Now when the king saw that Ammon could slay him, he began to plead with Ammon that he would spare his life.
But Ammon raised his sword, and said unto him: Behold, I will smite thee except thou wilt grant unto me that my brethren may be acast out of prison.
Now the king, fearing he should lose his life, said: If thou wilt spare me I will grant unto thee whatsoever thou wilt ask, even to half of the kingdom.
Now when Ammon saw that he had wrought upon the old king according to his desire, he said unto him: If thou wilt grant that my brethren may be cast out of prison, and also that Lamoni may retain his kingdom, and that ye be not displeased with him, but grant that he may do according to his own desires in awhatsoever thing he thinketh, then will I spare thee; otherwise I will smite thee to the earth.
Now when Ammon had said these words, the king began to rejoice because of his life.
And when he saw that Ammon had no desire to destroy him, and when he also saw the great alove he had for his son Lamoni, he was astonished exceedingly, and said: Because this is all that thou hast desired, that I would brelease thy brethren, and suffer that my son Lamoni should retain his kingdom, behold, I will grant unto you that my son may retain his kingdom from this time and forever; and I will govern him no more— And I will also grant unto thee that thy brethren may be cast out of prison, and thou and thy brethren may come unto me, in my kingdom; for I shall greatly desire to see thee.
For the king was greatly astonished at the words which he had spoken, and also at the words which had been spoken by his son Lamoni, therefore he was adesirous to learn them.
And it came to pass that Ammon and Lamoni proceeded on their journey towards the land of Middoni.
And Lamoni found favor in the eyes of the king of the land; therefore the brethren of Ammon were brought forth out of prison.
And when Ammon did meet them he was exceedingly sorrowful, for behold they were naked, and their skins were worn exceedingly because of being bound with strong cords.
And they also had asuffered hunger, thirst, and all kinds of afflictions; nevertheless they were bpatient in all their sufferings.
And, as it happened, it was their lot to have fallen into the hands of a more hardened and a more astiffnecked people; therefore they would not hearken unto their words, and they had cast them out, and had smitten them, and had driven them from house to house, and from place to place, even until they had arrived in the land of Middoni; and there they were taken and cast into prison, and bound with bstrong cords, and kept in prison for many days, and were delivered by Lamoni and Ammon.
 Now when Ammon and his brethren aseparated themselves in the borders of the land of the Lamanites, behold Aaron took his journey towards the land which was called by the Lamanites, bJerusalem, calling it after the land of their fathers’ nativity; and it was away joining the borders of Mormon.
Now the Lamanites and the Amalekites and the people of aAmulon had built a great city, which was called Jerusalem.
Now the Lamanites of themselves were sufficiently hardened, but the Amalekites and the Amulonites were still harder; therefore they did cause the Lamanites that they should harden their hearts, that they should wax strong in wickedness and their abominations.
And it came to pass that Aaron came to the city of Jerusalem, and first began to preach to the Amalekites.
And he began to preach to them in their asynagogues, for they had built synagogues after the border of the Nehors; for many of the Amalekites and the Amulonites were after the order of the Nehors.
Therefore, as Aaron entered into one of their asynagogues to preach unto the people, and as he was speaking unto them, behold there arose an Amalekite and began to contend with him, saying: What is that thou hast testified?
Hast thou seen an bangel?
Why do not angels appear unto us?
Behold care not this people as good as thy people?
Thou also sayest, except we repent we shall perish.
How knowest thou the thought and intent of our hearts?
How knowest thou that we have cause to repent?
How knowest thou that we are not a arighteous people?
Behold, we have built bsanctuaries, and we do assemble ourselves together to worship cGod.
We do believe that God will save all men.
Now Aaron said unto him: Believest thou that the Son of God shall come to redeem mankind from their sins?
And the man said unto him: We do not abelieve that thou knowest any such thing.
We do not believe in these foolish traditions.
We do not believe that thou knowest of things to come, neither do we believe that thy fathers and also that our fathers did know concerning the things which they spake, of that which is to come.
Now Aaron began to open the ascriptures unto them concerning the coming of Christ, and also concerning the resurrection of the dead, and that there could be bno redemption for mankind csave it were through the ddeath and sufferings of Christ, and the atonement of his blood.
And it came to pass as he began to expound these things unto them they were angry with him, and began to amock him; and they would not hear the words which he spake.
Therefore, when he saw that they would not hear his words, he departed out of their synagogue, and came over to a village which was called Ani-Anti, and there he found Muloki preaching the word unto them; and also Ammah and his brethren.
And they contended with many about the word.
And it came to pass that they saw that the people would harden their hearts, therefore they departed and came over into the land of aMiddoni.
And they did preach the word unto many, and bfew believed on the words which they taught.
Nevertheless, Aaron and a certain number of his brethren were taken and cast into aprison, and the remainder of them fled out of the land of Middoni unto the regions round about.
And those who were cast into prison asuffered many things, and they were delivered by the hand of Lamoni and Ammon, and they were fed and clothed.
And they went forth again to declare the word, and thus they were delivered for the first time out of prison; and thus they had suffered.
And they went forth whithersoever they were led by the aSpirit of the Lord, preaching the word of God in every synagogue of the Amalekites, or in every assembly of the Lamanites where they could be admitted.
And it came to pass that the Lord began to bless them, insomuch that they brought many to the knowledge of the truth; yea, they did aconvince many of their sins, and of the traditions of their fathers, which were not correct.
And it came to pass that Ammon and Lamoni returned from the land of Middoni to the land of aIshmael, which was the land of their inheritance.
And king Lamoni would not suffer that Ammon should serve him, or be his aservant.
But he caused that there should be asynagogues built in the land of Ishmael; and he caused that his people, or the people who were under his reign, should assemble themselves together.
And he did rejoice over them, and he did teach them many things.
And he did also declare unto them that they were a people who were under him, and that they were a afree people, that they were free from the oppressions of the king, his father; for that his father had granted unto him that he might reign over the people who were in the land of Ishmael, and in all the land round about.
And he also declared unto them that they might have the aliberty of worshiping the Lord their God according to their desires, in whatsoever place they were in, if it were in the land which was under the reign of king Lamoni.
And Ammon did preach unto the people of king Lamoni; and it came to pass that he did teach them all things concerning things pertaining to righteousness.
And he did exhort them daily, with all diligence; and they gave heed unto his word, and they were azealous for keeping the commandments of God.
 Now, as Ammon was thus teaching the people of Lamoni continually, we will return to the account of Aaron and his brethren; for after he departed from the land of Middoni he was aled by the Spirit to the land of Nephi, even to the house of the king which was bover all the land csave it were the land of Ishmael; and he was the father of Lamoni.
And it came to pass that he went in unto him into the king’s palace, with his brethren, and bowed himself before the king, and said unto him: Behold, O king, we are the brethren of Ammon, whom thou hast adelivered out of bprison.
And now, O king, if thou wilt spare our lives, we will be thy servants.
And the king said unto them: Arise, for I will grant unto you your lives, and I will not suffer that ye shall be my servants; but I will insist that ye shall administer unto me; for I have been somewhat atroubled in mind because of the bgenerosity and the greatness of the words of thy brother Ammon; and I desire to know the cause why he has not come up out of Middoni with thee.
And Aaron said unto the king: Behold, the Spirit of the Lord has called him another way; he has gone ato the land of Ishmael, to teach the people of Lamoni.
Now the king said unto them: What is this that ye have said concerning the Spirit of the Lord?
Behold, this is the thing which doth trouble me.
And also, what is this that Ammon said—aIf ye will repent ye shall be saved, and if ye will not repent, ye shall be cast off at the last day?
And Aaron answered him and said unto him: Believest thou that there is a God?
And the king said: I know that the Amalekites say that there is a God, and I have granted unto them that they should build sanctuaries, that they may assemble themselves together to worship him.
And if now thou sayest there is a God, behold I will abelieve.
And now when Aaron heard this, his heart began to rejoice, and he said: Behold, assuredly as thou livest, O king, there is a God.
And the king said: Is God that aGreat Spirit that brought our fathers out of the land of Jerusalem?
And Aaron said unto him: Yea, he is that Great Spirit, and he acreated all things both in heaven and in earth.
Believest thou this?
And he said: Yea, I believe that the Great Spirit created all things, and I desire that ye should tell me concerning all these things, and I will abelieve thy words.
And it came to pass that when Aaron saw that the king would believe his words, he began from the creation of Adam, areading the scriptures unto the king—how God bcreated man after his own image, and that God gave him commandments, and that because of transgression, man had fallen.
And Aaron did expound unto him the scriptures from the acreation of Adam, laying the fall of man before him, and their carnal state and also the bplan of credemption, which was prepared dfrom the foundation of the world, through Christ, for all whosoever would believe on his name.
And since man had afallen he could not bmerit anything of himself; but the sufferings and cdeath of Christ datone for their sins, through faith and repentance, and so forth; and that he breaketh the bands of death, that the egrave shall have no victory, and that the sting of death should be swallowed up in the hopes of glory; and Aaron did expound all these things unto the king.
And it came to pass that after Aaron had expounded these things unto him, the king said: aWhat shall I do that I may have this eternal life of which thou hast spoken?
Yea, what shall I do that I may be bborn of God, having this wicked spirit crooted out of my breast, and receive his Spirit, that I may be filled with joy, that I may not be cast off at the last day?
Behold, said he, I will give up dall that I possess, yea, I will forsake my kingdom, that I may receive this great joy.
But Aaron said unto him: If thou desirest this thing, if thou wilt abow down before God, yea, if thou wilt repent of all thy sins, and will bow down before God, and call on his name in faith, believing that ye shall receive, then shalt thou receive the bhope which thou desirest.
And it came to pass that when Aaron had said these words, the king did abow down before the Lord, upon his knees; yea, even he did prostrate himself upon the earth, and cried bmightily, saying: O God, Aaron hath told me that there is a God; and if there is a God, and if thou art God, wilt thou make thyself known unto me, and I will give away all my sins to know thee, and that I may be raised from the dead, and be saved at the last day.
And now when the king had said these words, he was struck aas if he were dead.
And it came to pass that his servants ran and told the queen all that had happened unto the king.
And she came in unto the king; and when she saw him lay as if he were dead, and also Aaron and his brethren standing as though they had been the cause of his fall, she was angry with them, and commanded that her servants, or the servants of the king, should take them and slay them.
Now the servants had seen the cause of the king’s fall, therefore they durst not lay their hands on Aaron and his brethren; and they pled with the queen saying: Why commandest thou that we should slay these men, when behold one of them is amightier than us all?
Therefore we shall fall before them.
Now when the queen saw the fear of the servants she also began to fear exceedingly, lest there should some evil come upon her.
And she commanded her servants that they should go and call the people, that they might slay Aaron and his brethren.
Now when Aaron saw the determination of the queen, he, also knowing the hardness of the hearts of the people, feared lest that a multitude should assemble themselves together, and there should be a great contention and a disturbance among them; therefore he put forth his ahand and raised the king from the earth, and said unto him: Stand.
And he stood upon his feet, receiving his strength.
Now this was done in the presence of the queen and many of the servants.
And when they saw it they greatly marveled, and began to fear.
And the king stood forth, and began to aminister unto them.
And he did minister unto them, insomuch that his bwhole household were cconverted unto the Lord.
Now there was a multitude gathered together because of the commandment of the queen, and there began to be great murmurings among them because of Aaron and his brethren.
But the king stood forth among them and administered unto them.
And they were apacified towards Aaron and those who were with him.
And it came to pass that when the king saw that the people were pacified, he caused that Aaron and his brethren should stand forth in the midst of the multitude, and that they should preach the word unto them.
And it came to pass that the king sent a aproclamation throughout all the land, amongst all his people who were in all his land, who were in all the regions round about, which was bordering even to the sea, on the east and on the bwest, and which was divided from the land of cZarahemla by a narrow strip of wilderness, which ran from the sea east even to the sea west, and round about on the borders of the seashore, and the borders of the wilderness which was on the north by the land of Zarahemla, through the borders of dManti, by the head of the eriver Sidon, running from the east towards the west—and thus were the Lamanites and the Nephites divided.
Now, the more aidle part of the Lamanites lived in the wilderness, and dwelt in tents; and they were spread through the wilderness on the west, in the land of Nephi; yea, and also on the west of the land of Zarahemla, in the borders by the seashore, and on the west in the land of Nephi, in the place of their fathers’ first inheritance, and thus bordering along by the seashore.
And also there were many Lamanites on the east by the seashore, whither the Nephites had driven them.
And thus the Nephites were nearly surrounded by the Lamanites; nevertheless the Nephites had taken possession of all the northern parts of the land bordering on the wilderness, at the head of the river Sidon, from the east to the west, round about on the wilderness side; on the north, even until they came to the land which they called aBountiful.
And it bordered upon the land which they called aDesolation, it being so far northward that it came into the land which had been peopled and been destroyed, of whose bbones we have spoken, which was discovered by the cpeople of Zarahemla, it being the place of their dfirst landing.
And they came from there aup into the south wilderness.
Thus the bland on the northward was called cDesolation, and the land on the southward was called Bountiful, it being the wilderness which is filled with all manner of wild animals of every kind, a part of which had come from the land northward for food.
And now, it was only the adistance of a day and a half’s journey for a Nephite, on the line Bountiful and the land Desolation, from the east to the west sea; and thus the land of Nephi and the land of Zarahemla were nearly surrounded by water, there being a small bneck of land between the land northward and the land southward.
And it came to pass that the Nephites had inhabited the land Bountiful, even from the east unto the west sea, and thus the Nephites in their wisdom, with their guards and their armies, had hemmed in the Lamanites on the south, that thereby they should have no more possession on the north, that they might not overrun the land northward.
Therefore the Lamanites could have no more possessions only in the land of Nephi, and the wilderness round about.
Now this was wisdom in the Nephites—as the Lamanites were an enemy to them, they would not suffer their afflictions on every hand, and also that they might have a country whither they might flee, according to their desires.
And now I, after having said this, return again to the account of Ammon and Aaron, Omner and Himni, and their brethren.
 Behold, now it came to pass that the king of the Lamanites sent a aproclamation among all his people, that they should not lay their hands on Ammon, or Aaron, or Omner, or Himni, nor either of their brethren who should go forth preaching the word of God, in whatsoever place they should be, in any part of their land.
Yea, he sent a decree among them, that they should not lay their hands on them to bind them, or to cast them into prison; neither should they spit upon them, nor smite them, nor cast them out of their asynagogues, nor scourge them; neither should they cast stones at them, but that they should have free access to their houses, and also their temples, and their bsanctuaries.
And thus they might go forth and preach the word according to their desires, for the king had been converted unto the Lord, and aall his bhousehold; therefore he sent his proclamation throughout the land unto his people, that the word of God might have no obstruction, but that it might go forth throughout all the land, that his people might be convinced concerning the wicked ctraditions of their fathers, and that they might be convinced that they were all brethren, and that they ought not to murder, nor to plunder, nor to steal, nor to commit adultery, nor to commit any manner of wickedness.
And now it came to pass that when the king had sent forth this proclamation, that Aaron and his brethren went forth from acity to city, and from one house of worship to another, establishing churches, and consecrating bpriests and teachers throughout the land among the Lamanites, to preach and to teach the word of God among them; and thus they began to have great success.
And athousands were brought to the knowledge of the Lord, yea, thousands were brought to believe in the btraditions of the Nephites; and they were taught the crecords and prophecies which were handed down even to the present time.
And as sure as the Lord liveth, so sure as many as believed, or as many as were brought to the knowledge of the truth, through the preaching of Ammon and his brethren, according to the spirit of revelation and of prophecy, and the power of God working amiracles in them—yea, I say unto you, as the Lord liveth, as many of the Lamanites as believed in their preaching, and were bconverted unto the Lord, cnever did fall away.
For they became a righteous people; they did lay down the weapons of their rebellion, that they did not fight against God any more, neither against any of their brethren.
Now, these are athey who were converted unto the Lord: The people of the Lamanites who were in the land of Ishmael; And also of the people of the Lamanites who were in the land of aMiddoni; And also of the people of the Lamanites who were in the city of Nephi; And also of the people of the Lamanites who were in the land of aShilom, and who were in the land of Shemlon, and in the city of Lemuel, and in the city of Shimnilom.
And these are the names of the cities of the Lamanites which were aconverted unto the Lord; and these are they that laid down the weapons of their rebellion, yea, all their weapons of war; and they were all Lamanites.
And the Amalekites were not aconverted, save only one; neither were any of the bAmulonites; but they did harden their hearts, and also the hearts of the Lamanites in that part of the land wheresoever they dwelt, yea, and all their villages and all their cities.
Therefore, we have named all the cities of the Lamanites in which they did repent and come to the knowledge of the truth, and were converted.
And now it came to pass that the king and those who were converted were desirous that they might have a name, that thereby they might be distinguished from their brethren; therefore the king consulted with Aaron and many of their priests, concerning the name that they should take upon them, that they might be distinguished.
And it came to pass that they called their names aAnti-Nephi-Lehies; and they were called by this name and were no more called bLamanites.
And they began to be a very aindustrious people; yea, and they were friendly with the Nephites; therefore, they did bopen a correspondence with them, and the ccurse of God did no more follow them.
 And it came to pass that the Amalekites and the Amulonites and the Lamanites who were in the land of aAmulon, and also in the land of bHelam, and who were in the land of cJerusalem, and in fine, in all the land round about, who had not been converted and had not taken upon them the name of dAnti-Nephi-Lehi, were stirred up by the Amalekites and by the Amulonites to anger against their brethren.
And their hatred became exceedingly sore against them, even insomuch that they began to rebel against their king, insomuch that they would not that he should be their king; therefore, they took up arms against the people of Anti-Nephi-Lehi.
Now the king conferred the kingdom upon his son, and he called his name Anti-Nephi-Lehi.
And the king died in that selfsame year that the Lamanites began to make preparations for war against the people of God.
Now when Ammon and his brethren and all those who had come up with him saw the preparations of the Lamanites to destroy their brethren, they came forth to the land of Midian, and there Ammon met all his brethren; and from thence they came to the land of Ishmael that they might hold a acouncil with Lamoni and also with his brother Anti-Nephi-Lehi, what they should do to defend themselves against the Lamanites.
Now there was not one soul among all the people who had been converted unto the Lord that would take up arms against their brethren; nay, they would not even make any preparations for war; yea, and also their king commanded them that they should not.
Now, these are the words which he said unto the people concerning the matter: I thank my God, my beloved people, that our great God has in goodness sent these our brethren, the Nephites, unto us to preach unto us, and to convince us of the atraditions of our wicked fathers.
And behold, I thank my great God that he has given us a portion of his Spirit to soften our hearts, that we have aopened a correspondence with these brethren, the Nephites.
And behold, I also thank my God, that by opening this correspondence we have been convinced of our asins, and of the many murders which we have committed.
And I also thank my God, yea, my great God, that he hath granted unto us that we might repent of these things, and also that he hath aforgiven us of those our many sins and murders which we have committed, and taken away the bguilt from our hearts, through the merits of his Son.
And now behold, my brethren, since it has been all that we could do (as we were the most lost of all mankind) to repent of all our sins and the many murders which we have committed, and to get God to atake them away from our hearts, for it was all we could do to repent sufficiently before God that he would take away our stain— Now, my best beloved brethren, since God hath taken away our stains, and our swords have become bright, then let us stain our swords no more with the blood of our brethren.
Behold, I say unto you, Nay, let us retain our swords that they be not stained with the blood of our brethren; for perhaps, if we should stain our swords aagain they can no more be bwashed bright through the blood of the Son of our great God, which shall be shed for the atonement of our sins.
And the great God has had mercy on us, and made these things known unto us that we might not perish; yea, and he has made these things known unto us beforehand, because he loveth our asouls as well as he loveth our children; therefore, in his mercy he doth visit us by his angels, that the bplan of salvation might be made known unto us as well as unto future generations.
Oh, how merciful is our God!
And now behold, since it has been as much as we could do to get our stains taken away from us, and our swords are made bright, let us ahide them away that they may be kept bright, as a testimony to our God at the last day, or at the day that we shall be brought to stand before him to be judged, that we have not stained our swords in the blood of our brethren since he imparted his word unto us and has made us bclean thereby.
And now, my brethren, if our brethren seek to destroy us, behold, we will hide away our swords, yea, even we will bury them deep in the earth, that they may be kept bright, as a testimony that we have never used them, at the last day; and if our brethren destroy us, behold, we shall ago to our God and shall be saved.
And now it came to pass that when the king had made an end of these sayings, and all the people were assembled together, they took their swords, and all the weapons which were used for the shedding of man’s blood, and they did abury them up deep in the earth.
And this they did, it being in their view a testimony to God, and also to men, that they anever would use weapons again for the shedding of man’s blood; and this they did, vouching and bcovenanting with God, that rather than shed the blood of their brethren they would cgive up their own lives; and rather than take away from a brother they would give unto him; and rather than spend their days in idleness they would labor abundantly with their hands.
And thus we see that, when these Lamanites were brought to abelieve and to know the truth, they were bfirm, and would suffer even unto death rather than commit sin; and thus we see that they buried their weapons of peace, or they buried the weapons of war, for peace.
And it came to pass that their brethren, the Lamanites, made preparations for war, and came up to the land of Nephi for the purpose of destroying the king, and to place aanother in his stead, and also of destroying the people of Anti-Nephi-Lehi out of the land.
Now when the people saw that they were coming against them they went out to meet them, and aprostrated themselves before them to the earth, and began to call on the name of the Lord; and thus they were in this attitude when the Lamanites began to fall upon them, and began to slay them with the sword.
And thus without meeting any resistance, they did slay a athousand and five of them; and we know that they are blessed, for they have gone to dwell with their God.
Now when the Lamanites saw that their brethren would not flee from the sword, neither would they turn aside to the right hand or to the left, but that they would lie down and aperish, and bpraised God even in the very act of perishing under the sword— Now when the Lamanites saw this they did aforbear from slaying them; and there were many whose hearts had bswollen in them for those of their brethren who had fallen under the sword, for they repented of the things which they had done.
And it came to pass that they threw down their weapons of war, and they would not take them again, for they were stung for the murders which they had committed; and they came down even as their brethren, relying upon the mercies of those whose arms were lifted to slay them.
And it came to pass that the people of God were joined that day by more than the number who had been slain; and those who had been slain were righteous people, therefore we have no reason to doubt but what they were asaved.
And there was not a wicked man slain among them; but there were more than a thousand brought to the knowledge of the truth; thus we see that the Lord worketh in many aways to the salvation of his people.
Now the greatest number of those of the Lamanites who slew so many of their brethren were Amalekites and Amulonites, the greatest number of whom were after the aorder of the bNehors.
Now, among those who joined the people of the Lord, there were anone who were Amalekites or Amulonites, or who were of the order of Nehor, but they were actual descendants of Laman and Lemuel.
And thus we can plainly discern, that after a people have been once aenlightened by the bSpirit of God, and have had great cknowledge of things pertaining to righteousness, and then have dfallen away into sin and transgression, they become more ehardened, and thus their state becomes fworse than though they had never known these things.
 And behold, now it came to pass that those Lamanites were more angry because they had slain their brethren; therefore they swore vengeance upon the Nephites; and they did ano more attempt to slay the people of bAnti-Nephi-Lehi at that time.
But they took their armies and went over into the borders of the land of Zarahemla, and fell upon the people who were in the land of Ammonihah and adestroyed them.
And after that, they had amany battles with the Nephites, in the which they were driven and slain.
And among the Lamanites who were slain were almost all the aseed of Amulon and his brethren, who were the priests of Noah, and they were slain by the hands of the Nephites; And the remainder, having fled into the east wilderness, and having usurped the power and aauthority over the Lamanites, caused that many of the Lamanites should bperish by fire because of their belief— For many of athem, after having suffered much loss and so many afflictions, began to be stirred up in remembrance of the bwords which Aaron and his brethren had preached to them in their land; therefore they began to disbelieve the ctraditions of their fathers, and to believe in the Lord, and that he gave great power unto the Nephites; and thus there were many of them converted in the wilderness.
And it came to pass that those rulers who were the remnant of the children of aAmulon caused that they should be put to bdeath, yea, all those that believed in these things.
Now this martyrdom caused that many of their brethren should be stirred up to anger; and there began to be contention in the wilderness; and the Lamanites began to ahunt the seed of Amulon and his brethren and began to slay them; and they fled into the east wilderness.
And behold they are hunted at this day by the Lamanites.
Thus the words of Abinadi were brought to pass, which he said concerning the seed of the priests who caused that he should suffer death by fire.
For he said unto them: What ye shall ado unto me shall be a type of things to come.
And now Abinadi was the first that suffered adeath by fire because of his belief in God; now this is what he meant, that many should suffer death by fire, according as he had suffered.
And he said unto the priests of Noah that their seed should cause many to be put to death, in the like manner as he was, and that they should be scattered abroad and slain, even as a sheep having no shepherd is driven and slain by wild beasts; and now behold, these words were verified, for they were driven by the Lamanites, and they were hunted, and they were smitten.
And it came to pass that when the Lamanites saw that they could not overpower the Nephites they returned again to their own land; and many of them came over to dwell in the land of aIshmael and the land of Nephi, and did join themselves to the people of God, who were the people of bAnti-Nephi-Lehi.
And they did also abury their weapons of war, according as their brethren had, and they began to be a righteous people; and they did walk in the ways of the Lord, and did observe to keep his commandments and his statutes.
Yea, and they did keep the law of Moses; for it was expedient that they should keep the law of Moses as yet, for it was not all fulfilled.
But notwithstanding the alaw of Moses, they did look forward to the coming of Christ, considering that the law of Moses was a btype of his coming, and believing that they must keep those coutward dperformances until the time that he should be revealed unto them.
Now they did not suppose that asalvation came by the blaw of Moses; but the law of Moses did serve to strengthen their faith in Christ; and thus they did retain a chope through faith, unto eternal salvation, relying upon the spirit of prophecy, which spake of those things to come.
And now behold, Ammon, and Aaron, and Omner, and Himni, and their brethren did rejoice exceedingly, for the success which they had had among the Lamanites, seeing that the Lord had granted unto them according to their aprayers, and that he had also verified his word unto them in every particular.
 And now, these are the words of Ammon to his brethren, which say thus: My brothers and my brethren, behold I say unto you, how great reason have we to rejoice; for could we have supposed when we astarted from the land of Zarahemla that God would have granted unto us such great blessings?
And now, I ask, what great blessings has he bestowed upon us?
Can ye tell?
Behold, I answer for you; for our brethren, the Lamanites, were in darkness, yea, even in the darkest abyss, but behold, how amany of them are brought to behold the marvelous light of God!
And this is the blessing which hath been bestowed upon us, that we have been made binstruments in the hands of God to bring about this great work.
Behold, athousands of them do rejoice, and have been brought into the fold of God.
Behold, the afield was ripe, and blessed are ye, for ye did thrust in the bsickle, and did reap with your might, yea, all the day long did ye labor; and behold the number of your csheaves!
And they shall be gathered into the garners, that they are not wasted.
Yea, they shall not be beaten down by the storm at the last day; yea, neither shall they be harrowed up by the whirlwinds; but when the astorm cometh they shall be gathered together in their place, that the storm cannot penetrate to them; yea, neither shall they be driven with fierce winds whithersoever the enemy listeth to carry them.
But behold, they are in the hands of the Lord of the aharvest, and they are his; and he will braise them up at the last day.
aBlessed be the name of our God; let us bsing to his praise, yea, let us give cthanks to his holy name, for he doth work righteousness forever.
For if we had not come up out of the land of Zarahemla, these our dearly beloved brethren, who have so dearly beloved us, would still have been racked with ahatred against us, yea, and they would also have been bstrangers to God.
And it came to pass that when Ammon had said these words, his brother Aaron rebuked him, saying: Ammon, I fear that thy joy doth carry thee away unto boasting.
But Ammon said unto him: I do not aboast in my own strength, nor in my own wisdom; but behold, my bjoy is full, yea, my heart is brim with cjoy, and I will rejoice in my God.
Yea, I know that I am anothing; as to my strength I am weak; therefore I will bnot boast of myself, but I will cboast of my God, for in his dstrength I can do all ethings; yea, behold, many mighty miracles we have wrought in this land, for which we will praise his name forever.
Behold, how many thousands of our brethren has he loosed from the pains of ahell; and they are brought to bsing redeeming love, and this because of the power of his word which is in us, therefore have we not great reason to rejoice?
Yea, we have reason to praise him forever, for he is the Most High God, and has loosed our brethren from the achains of hell.
Yea, they were encircled about with everlasting adarkness and destruction; but behold, he has brought them into his everlasting blight, yea, into everlasting salvation; and they are encircled about with the matchless bounty of his love; yea, and we have been instruments in his hands of doing this great and marvelous work.
Therefore, let us aglory, yea, we will bglory in the Lord; yea, we will rejoice, for our joy is full; yea, we will praise our God forever.
Behold, who can glory too much in the Lord?
Yea, who can say too much of his great power, and of his cmercy, and of his long-suffering towards the children of men?
Behold, I say unto you, I cannot say the smallest part which I feel.
Who could have supposed that our God would have been so merciful as to have snatched us from our awful, sinful, and apolluted state?
Behold, we went forth even in wrath, with mighty threatenings to adestroy his church.
Oh then, why did he not consign us to an awful destruction, yea, why did he not let the sword of his justice fall upon us, and doom us to eternal adespair?
Oh, my soul, almost as it were, fleeth at the thought.
Behold, he did not exercise his justice upon us, but in his great mercy hath brought us over that everlasting agulf of death and misery, even to the salvation of our souls.
And now behold, my brethren, what anatural man is there that knoweth these things?
I say unto you, there is bnone that cknoweth these things, save it be the penitent.
Yea, he that arepenteth and exerciseth faith, and bringeth forth good bworks, and prayeth continually without ceasing—unto such it is given to know the cmysteries of God; yea, unto such it shall be dgiven to ereveal things which never have been revealed; yea, and it shall be given unto such to bring thousands of souls to repentance, even as it has been given unto us to bring these our brethren to repentance.
Now do ye remember, my brethren, that we said unto our brethren in the land of Zarahemla, we go up to the land of Nephi, to preach unto our brethren, the Lamanites, and they alaughed us to scorn?
For they said unto us: Do ye suppose that ye can bring the Lamanites to the knowledge of the truth?
Do ye suppose that ye can convince the Lamanites of the aincorrectness of the btraditions of their fathers, as cstiffnecked a people as they are; whose hearts delight in the dshedding of blood; whose days have been spent in the grossest iniquity; whose ways have been the ways of a transgressor from the beginning?
Now my brethren, ye remember that this was their language.
And moreover they did say: Let us take up arms against them, that we destroy them and their iniquity out of the land, lest they overrun us and destroy us.
But behold, my beloved brethren, we came into the wilderness not with the intent to destroy our brethren, but with the intent that perhaps we might save some few of their souls.
Now when our hearts were depressed, and we were about to aturn back, behold, the Lord bcomforted us, and said: Go amongst thy brethren, the Lamanites, and bear with cpatience thine dafflictions, and I will give unto you success.
And now behold, we have come, and been forth amongst them; and we have been patient in our sufferings, and we have suffered every privation; yea, we have traveled from house to house, relying upon the mercies of the world—not upon the mercies of the world alone but upon the mercies of God.
And we have entered into their houses and taught them, and we have taught them in their streets; yea, and we have taught them upon their hills; and we have also entered into their temples and their asynagogues and taught them; and we have been cast out, and mocked, and spit upon, and smote upon our cheeks; and we have been bstoned, and taken and bound with cstrong cords, and cast into prison; and through the power and wisdom of God we have been delivered again.
And we have suffered all manner of afflictions, and all this, that perhaps we might be the means of saving some soul; and we supposed that our ajoy would be full if perhaps we could be the means of saving some.
Now behold, we can look forth and see the afruits of our labors; and are they few?
I say unto you, Nay, they are bmany; yea, and we can witness of their sincerity, because of their love towards their brethren and also towards us.
For behold, they had rather asacrifice their lives than even to take the life of their enemy; and they have bburied their weapons of war deep in the earth, because of their love towards their brethren.
And now behold I say unto you, has there been so great love in all the land?
Behold, I say unto you, Nay, there has not, even among the Nephites.
For behold, they would take up arms against their brethren; they would not suffer themselves to be slain.
But behold how amany of these have laid down their lives; and we know that they have gone to their God, because of their love and of their hatred to sin.
Now have we not reason to rejoice?
Yea, I say unto you, there never were men that had so great reason to rejoice as we, since the world began; yea, and my joy is carried away, even unto boasting in my God; for he has all apower, ball wisdom, and all understanding; he comprehendeth all things, and he is a cmerciful Being, even unto salvation, to those who will repent and believe on his name.
Now if this is aboasting, even so will I boast; for this is my life and my light, my joy and my salvation, and my redemption from everlasting wo.
Yea, blessed is the name of my God, who has been mindful of this people, who are a bbranch of the tree of Israel, and has been clost from its body in a strange land; yea, I say, blessed be the name of my God, who has been mindful of us, dwanderers in a strange land.
Now my brethren, we see that God is amindful of every bpeople, whatsoever land they may be in; yea, he numbereth his people, and his bowels of mercy are over all the earth.
Now this is my joy, and my great thanksgiving; yea, and I will give thanks unto my God forever.
Amen.
 Now it came to pass that when those Lamanites who had gone to war against the Nephites had found, after their amany struggles to destroy them, that it was in vain to seek their destruction, they returned again to the land of Nephi.
And it came to pass that the Amalekites, because of their loss, were exceedingly angry.
And when they saw that they could not seek revenge from the Nephites, they began to astir up the people in anger against their bbrethren, the people of cAnti-Nephi-Lehi; therefore they began again to destroy them.
Now this people aagain refused to take their arms, and they suffered themselves to be slain according to the desires of their enemies.
Now when Ammon and his brethren saw this work of destruction among those whom they so dearly beloved, and among those who had so dearly beloved them—for they were treated as though they were angels sent from God to save them from everlasting destruction—therefore, when Ammon and his brethren saw this great work of destruction, they were moved with compassion, and they asaid unto the king: Let us gather together this people of the Lord, and let us go down to the land of Zarahemla to our brethren the Nephites, and flee out of the hands of our enemies, that we be not destroyed.
But the king said unto them: Behold, the Nephites will destroy us, because of the many murders and sins we have committed against them.
And Ammon said: I will go and inquire of the Lord, and if he say unto us, go down unto our brethren, will ye go?
And the king said unto him: Yea, if the Lord saith unto us go, we will go down unto our brethren, and we will be their slaves until we repair unto them the many murders and sins which we have committed against them.
But Ammon said unto him: It is against the law of our brethren, which was established by my father, that there should be any aslaves among them; therefore let us go down and rely upon the mercies of our brethren.
But the king said unto him: Inquire of the Lord, and if he saith unto us go, we will go; otherwise we will perish in the land.
And it came to pass that Ammon went and inquired of the Lord, and the Lord said unto him: Get this people aout of this land, that they perish not; for Satan has great hold on the hearts of the Amalekites, who do stir up the Lamanites to anger against their brethren to slay them; therefore get thee out of this land; and blessed are this people in this generation, for I will bpreserve them.
And now it came to pass that Ammon went and told the king all the words which the Lord had said unto him.
And they gathered together all their people, yea, all the people of the Lord, and did gather together all their flocks and herds, and departed out of the land, and came into the wilderness which divided the land of Nephi from the land of Zarahemla, and came over near the borders of the land.
And it came to pass that Ammon said unto them: Behold, I and my brethren will go forth into the land of Zarahemla, and ye shall remain here until we return; and we will atry the hearts of our brethren, whether they will that ye shall come into their land.
And it came to pass that as Ammon was going forth into the land, that he and his brethren met Alma, over in the aplace of which has been spoken; and behold, this was a joyful meeting.
Now the ajoy of Ammon was so great even that he was full; yea, he was swallowed up in the joy of his God, even to the bexhausting of his strength; and he fell cagain to the earth.
Now was not this aexceeding joy?
Behold, this is joy which none receiveth save it be the truly penitent and humble seeker of bhappiness.
Now the joy of Alma in meeting his abrethren was truly great, and also the joy of Aaron, of Omner, and Himni; but behold their joy was not that to exceed their strength.
And now it came to pass that Alma conducted his brethren back to the land of Zarahemla; even to his aown house.
And they went and told the bchief judge all the things that had happened unto them in the land of Nephi, among their brethren, the Lamanites.
And it came to pass that the chief judge sent a proclamation throughout all the land, desiring the voice of the people concerning the admitting their brethren, who were the people of aAnti-Nephi-Lehi.
And it came to pass that the voice of the people came, saying: Behold, we will give up the aland of bJershon, which is on the east by the sea, which joins the land Bountiful, which is on the south of the land Bountiful; and this land Jershon is the land which we will give unto our brethren for an inheritance.
And behold, we will set our armies between the land Jershon and the land Nephi, that we may aprotect our brethren in the land Jershon; and this we do for our brethren, on account of their fear to take up arms against their brethren lest they should commit sin; and this their great fear came because of their sore repentance which they had, on account of their many murders and their awful wickedness.
And now behold, this will we do unto our brethren, that they may inherit the land Jershon; and we will guard them from their enemies with our armies, on condition that they will give us a aportion of their substance to assist us that we may maintain our armies.
Now, it came to pass that when Ammon had heard this, he returned to the people of Anti-Nephi-Lehi, and also Alma with him, into the wilderness, where they had pitched their tents, and made known unto them all these things.
And Alma also related unto them his aconversion, with Ammon and Aaron, and his brethren.
And it came to pass that it did cause great joy among them.
And they went down into the land of Jershon, and took possession of the land of Jershon; and they were called by the Nephites the apeople of Ammon; therefore they were distinguished by that name ever after.
And they were among the people of Nephi, and also numbered among the people who were of the church of God.
And they were also distinguished for their azeal towards God, and also towards men; for they were perfectly bhonest and upright in all things; and they were cfirm in the faith of Christ, even unto the end.
And they did look upon shedding the blood of their brethren with the greatest abhorrence; and they never could be prevailed upon to take up arms against their brethren; and they never did look upon death with any degree of terror, for their hope and views of Christ and the resurrection; therefore, death was swallowed up to them by the victory of Christ over it.
Therefore, they would suffer adeath in the most aggravating and distressing manner which could be inflicted by their brethren, before they would take the sword or cimeter to smite them.
And thus they were a zealous and beloved people, a highly favored people of the Lord.
 And now it came to pass that after the people of Ammon were established in the land of aJershon, and a church also established in the land of Jershon, and the armies of the Nephites were set round about the land of Jershon, yea, in all the borders round about the land of Zarahemla; behold the armies of the Lamanites had followed their brethren into the wilderness.
And thus there was a tremendous battle; yea, even such an one as never had been known among all the people in the land from the time Lehi left Jerusalem; yea, and tens of thousands of the Lamanites were slain and scattered abroad.
Yea, and also there was a tremendous slaughter among the people of Nephi; nevertheless, the Lamanites were adriven and scattered, and the people of Nephi returned again to their land.
And now this was a time that there was a great amourning and lamentation heard throughout all the land, among all the people of Nephi— Yea, the cry of awidows mourning for their husbands, and also of fathers mourning for their sons, and the daughter for the brother, yea, the brother for the father; and thus the cry of mourning was heard among all of them, mourning for their kindred who had been slain.
And now surely this was a sorrowful day; yea, a time of solemnity, and a time of much afasting and prayer.
And thus endeth the fifteenth year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi; And athis is the account of Ammon and his brethren, their journeyings in the land of Nephi, their sufferings in the land, their sorrows, and their afflictions, and their bincomprehensible joy, and the reception and safety of the brethren in the land of Jershon.
And now may the Lord, the Redeemer of all men, bless their souls forever.
And this is the account of the wars and contentions among the Nephites, and also the wars between the Nephites and the Lamanites; and the fifteenth year of the reign of the judges is ended.
And from the afirst year to the fifteenth has brought to pass the destruction of many thousand lives; yea, it has brought to pass an awful scene of bloodshed.
And the bodies of many thousands are laid low in the earth, while the bodies of many thousands are amoldering in heaps upon the face of the earth; yea, and many thousands are bmourning for the loss of their kindred, because they have reason to fear, according to the promises of the Lord, that they are consigned to a state of endless wo.
While many thousands of others truly amourn for the loss of their kindred, yet they rejoice and exult in the hope, and even know, according to the bpromises of the Lord, that they are raised to dwell at the right hand of God, in a state of never-ending chappiness.
And thus we see how great the ainequality of man is because of sin and btransgression, and the power of the devil, which comes by the cunning cplans which he hath devised to ensnare the hearts of men.
And thus we see the great call of adiligence of men to labor in the vineyards of the Lord; and thus we see the great reason of sorrow, and also of rejoicing—sorrow because of death and destruction among men, and joy because of the blight of Christ unto life.
 O that I were an angel, and could have the wish of mine heart, that I might go forth and speak with the atrump of God, with a voice to shake the earth, and cry repentance unto every people!
Yea, I would declare unto every soul, as with the voice of thunder, repentance and the plan of redemption, that they should repent and acome unto our God, that there might not be more sorrow upon all the face of the earth.
But behold, I am a man, and do sin in my wish; for I ought to be content with the things which the Lord hath allotted unto me.
I ought not to harrow up in my desires the firm decree of a just God, for I know that he granteth unto men according to their adesire, whether it be unto death or unto life; yea, I know that he allotteth unto men, yea, decreeth unto them decrees which are unalterable, according to their bwills, whether they be unto salvation or unto destruction.
Yea, and I know that good and evil have come before all men; he that knoweth not good from evil is ablameless; but he that bknoweth good and evil, to him it is given according to his desires, whether he desireth good or evil, life or death, joy or remorse of cconscience.
Now, seeing that I know these things, why should I desire more than to aperform the work to which I have been called?
Why should I desire that I were an angel, that I could speak unto all the ends of the earth?
For behold, the Lord doth agrant unto ball nations, of their own nation and ctongue, to teach his word, yea, in wisdom, all that he dseeth fit that they should have; therefore we see that the Lord doth counsel in wisdom, according to that which is just and true.
I know that which the Lord hath commanded me, and I glory in it.
I do anot bglory of myself, but I glory in that which the Lord hath commanded me; yea, and this is my glory, that perhaps I may be an instrument in the hands of God to bring some soul to repentance; and this is my joy.
And behold, when I see many of my brethren truly penitent, and coming to the Lord their God, then is my soul filled with joy; then do I remember awhat the Lord has done for me, yea, even that he hath heard my prayer; yea, then do I remember his merciful arm which he extended towards me.
Yea, and I also remember the captivity of my fathers; for I surely do know that the aLord did deliver them out of bondage, and by this did establish his church; yea, the Lord God, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, did deliver them out of bondage.
Yea, I have always remembered the captivity of my fathers; and that same God who adelivered them out of the hands of the Egyptians did deliver them out of bbondage.
Yea, and that same God did establish his church among them; yea, and that same God hath called me by a aholy calling, to bpreach the word unto this people, and hath given me much success, in the which my joy is full.
But I do not joy in my own asuccess alone, but my joy is more full because of the success of my brethren, who have been up to the land of Nephi.
Behold, they have labored exceedingly, and have brought forth much fruit; and how great shall be their reward!
Now, when I think of the success of these my brethren my soul is carried away, even to the separation of it from the body, as it were, so great is my ajoy.
And now may God grant unto these, my brethren, that they may sit down in the kingdom of God; yea, and also all those who are the fruit of their labors that they may go no more out, but that they may praise him forever.
And may God grant that it may be done according to my words, even as I have spoken.
Amen.
 And it came to pass that the Nephites who were not aslain by the weapons of war, after having buried those who had been slain—now the number of the slain were not numbered, because of the greatness of their number—after they had finished burying their dead they all returned to their lands, and to their houses, and their wives, and their children.
Now many women and children had been slain with the sword, and also many of their flocks and their herds; and also many of their fields of grain were destroyed, for they were trodden down by the hosts of men.
And now as many of the Lamanites and the Amlicites who had been slain upon the bank of the river Sidon were cast into the awaters of Sidon; and behold their bones are in the depths of the bsea, and they are many.
And the aAmlicites were distinguished from the Nephites, for they had bmarked themselves with red in their foreheads after the manner of the Lamanites; nevertheless they had not shorn their heads like unto the Lamanites.
Now the heads of the Lamanites were shorn; and they were anaked, save it were skin which was girded about their loins, and also their armor, which was girded about them, and their bows, and their arrows, and their stones, and their slings, and so forth.
And the skins of the Lamanites were dark, according to the mark which was set upon their fathers, which was a acurse upon them because of their transgression and their rebellion against their brethren, who consisted of Nephi, Jacob, and Joseph, and Sam, who were just and holy men.
And their brethren sought to destroy them, therefore they were cursed; and the Lord God set a amark upon them, yea, upon Laman and Lemuel, and also the sons of Ishmael, and Ishmaelitish women.
And this was done that their seed might be distinguished from the seed of their brethren, that thereby the Lord God might preserve his people, that they might not amix and believe in incorrect btraditions which would prove their destruction.
And it came to pass that whosoever did mingle his seed with that of the Lamanites did bring the same curse upon his seed.
Therefore, whosoever suffered himself to be led away by the Lamanites was called under that head, and there was a mark set upon him.
And it came to pass that whosoever would not believe in the atradition of the Lamanites, but believed those records which were brought out of the land of Jerusalem, and also in the tradition of their fathers, which were correct, who believed in the commandments of God and kept them, were bcalled the Nephites, or the people of Nephi, from that time forth— And it is they who have kept the records which are atrue of their people, and also of the people of the Lamanites.
Now we will return again to the Amlicites, for they also had a amark set upon them; yea, they set the mark upon themselves, yea, even a mark of red upon their foreheads.
Thus the word of God is fulfilled, for these are the words which he said to Nephi: Behold, the Lamanites have I cursed, and I will set a mark on them that they and their seed may be aseparated from thee and thy seed, from this time henceforth and forever, except they repent of their wickedness and bturn to me that I may have mercy upon them.
And again: I will set a mark upon him that mingleth his seed with thy brethren, that they may be cursed also.
And again: I will set a mark upon him that fighteth against thee and thy seed.
And again, I say he that departeth from thee shall no more be called thy seed; and I will bless thee, and whomsoever shall be called thy seed, henceforth and forever; and these were the promises of the Lord unto Nephi and to his seed.
Now the Amlicites knew not that they were fulfilling the words of God when they began to mark themselves in their foreheads; nevertheless they had come out in open arebellion against God; therefore it was expedient that the curse should fall upon them.
Now I would that ye should see that they brought upon themselves the acurse; and even so doth every man that is cursed bring upon himself his own condemnation.
Now it came to pass that not many days after the battle which was fought in the land of Zarahemla, by the Lamanites and the Amlicites, that there was another army of the Lamanites came in upon the people of Nephi, in the asame place where the first army met the Amlicites.
And it came to pass that there was an army sent to drive them out of their land.
Now Alma himself being afflicted with a awound did not go up to battle at this time against the Lamanites; But he sent up a numerous army against them; and they went up and slew many of the Lamanites, and drove the remainder of them out of the borders of their land.
And then they returned again and began to establish peace in the land, being troubled no more for a time with their enemies.
Now all these things were done, yea, all these wars and contentions were commenced and ended in the fifth year of the reign of the judges.
And in one year were thousands and tens of thousands of souls sent to the eternal world, that they might reap their arewards according to their works, whether they were good or whether they were bad, to reap eternal happiness or eternal misery, according to the spirit which they listed to obey, whether it be a good spirit or a bad one.
For every man receiveth awages of him whom he listeth to bobey, and this according to the words of the spirit of prophecy; therefore let it be according to the truth.
And thus endeth the fifth year of the reign of the judges.
 Behold, now it came to pass that after the apeople of Ammon were established in the land of Jershon, yea, and also after the Lamanites were bdriven out of the land, and their dead were buried by the people of the land— Now their dead were not numbered because of the greatness of their numbers; neither were the dead of the Nephites numbered—but it came to pass after they had buried their dead, and also after the days of afasting, and bmourning, and prayer, (and it was in the sixteenth year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi) there began to be continual peace throughout all the land.
Yea, and the people did observe to keep the commandments of the Lord; and they were strict in observing the aordinances of God, according to the law of Moses; for they were taught to bkeep the law of Moses until it should be fulfilled.
And thus the people did have no disturbance in all the sixteenth year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi.
And it came to pass that in the commencement of the seventeenth year of the reign of the judges, there was continual peace.
But it came to pass in the latter end of the seventeenth year, there came a man into the land of Zarahemla, and he was aAnti-Christ, for he began to preach unto the people bagainst the prophecies which had been spoken by the prophets, concerning the coming of Christ.
Now there was no law against a aman’s bbelief; for it was strictly contrary to the commands of God that there should be a law which should bring men on to unequal grounds.
For thus saith the scripture: aChoose ye this day, whom ye will serve.
Now if a man desired to serve God, it was his privilege; or rather, if he believed in God it was his privilege to serve him; but if he did not believe in him there was no law to punish him.
But if he amurdered he was punished unto bdeath; and if he crobbed he was also punished; and if he stole he was also punished; and if he committed dadultery he was also punished; yea, for all this wickedness they were punished.
For there was a law that men should be judged according to their crimes.
Nevertheless, there was no law against a man’s belief; therefore, a man was punished only for the crimes which he had done; therefore all men were on aequal grounds.
And this aAnti-Christ, whose name was Korihor, (and the law could have no hold upon him) began to preach unto the people that there should be bno Christ.
And after this manner did he preach, saying: O ye that are bound down under a afoolish and a vain hope, why do ye yoke yourselves with such foolish things?
Why do ye look for a Christ?
For no man can bknow of anything which is to come.
Behold, these things which ye call prophecies, which ye say are handed down by holy prophets, behold, they are foolish traditions of your fathers.
How do ye know of their surety?
Behold, ye cannot know of things which ye do not asee; therefore ye cannot know that there shall be a Christ.
Ye look forward and say that ye see a remission of your sins.
But behold, it is the effect of a afrenzied mind; and this derangement of your minds comes because of the traditions of your fathers, which lead you away into a belief of things which are not so.
And many more such things did he say unto them, telling them that there could be no atonement made for the sins of men, but every man afared in this life according to the management of the creature; therefore every man prospered according to his genius, and that every man conquered according to his strength; and bwhatsoever a man did was cno crime.
And thus he did preach unto them, leading away the hearts of many, causing them to lift up their heads in their wickedness, yea, leading away many women, and also men, to commit whoredoms—telling them that when a man was dead, that was the end thereof.
Now this man went over to the land of aJershon also, to preach these things among the people of Ammon, who were once the people of the Lamanites.
But behold they were more wise than many of the Nephites; for they took him, and bound him, and carried him before Ammon, who was a ahigh priest over that people.
And it came to pass that he caused that he should be carried out of the land.
And he came over into the land of Gideon, and began to preach unto them also; and here he did not have much success, for he was taken and bound and carried before the high priest, and also the chief judge over the land.
And it came to pass that the high priest said unto him: Why do ye go about perverting the ways of the Lord?
Why do ye teach this people that there shall be no Christ, to interrupt their rejoicings?
Why do ye speak against all the prophecies of the holy prophets?
Now the high priest’s name was Giddonah.
And Korihor said unto him: Because I do not teach the foolish traditions of your fathers, and because I do not teach this people to bind themselves down under the foolish ordinances and performances which are laid down by ancient priests, to usurp power and authority over them, to keep them in ignorance, that they may not lift up their heads, but be brought down according to thy words.
Ye say that this people is a free people.
Behold, I say they are in bondage.
Ye say that those ancient prophecies are true.
Behold, I say that ye do not know that they are true.
Ye say that this people is a guilty and a fallen people, because of the transgression of a parent.
Behold, I say that a child is not guilty because of its parents.
And ye also say that Christ shall come.
But behold, I say that ye do not know that there shall be a Christ.
And ye say also that he shall be slain for the asins of the world— And thus ye lead away this people after the foolish traditions of your fathers, and according to your own desires; and ye keep them down, even as it were in bondage, that ye may glut yourselves with the labors of their hands, that they durst not look up with boldness, and that they durst not enjoy their rights and privileges.
Yea, they durst not make use of that which is their own lest they should offend their priests, who do yoke them according to their desires, and have brought them to believe, by their traditions and their dreams and their whims and their visions and their pretended mysteries, that they should, if they did not do according to their words, offend some unknown being, who they say is God—a being who anever has been seen or known, who bnever was nor ever will be.
Now when the high priest and the achief judge saw the hardness of his heart, yea, when they saw that he would brevile even against God, they would not make any reply to his words; but they caused that he should be bound; and they delivered him up into the hands of the officers, and sent him to the land of Zarahemla, that he might be brought before Alma, and the chief judge who was governor over all the land.
And it came to pass that when he was brought before Alma and the chief judge, he did go on in the same manner as he did in the land of Gideon; yea, he went on to ablaspheme.
And he did rise up in great aswelling words before Alma, and did revile against the bpriests and teachers, accusing them of leading away the people after the silly traditions of their fathers, for the sake of glutting on the labors of the people.
Now Alma said unto him: Thou knowest that we do not glut ourselves upon the labors of this people; for behold I have alabored even from the commencement of the reign of the judges until now, with mine bown hands for my support, notwithstanding my many travels round about the land to declare the word of God unto my people.
And notwithstanding the many labors which I have performed in the church, I have never received so much as even one asenine for my labor; neither has any of my brethren, save it were in the judgment-seat; and then we have received only according to law for our time.
And now, if we do not receive anything for our labors in the church, what doth it profit us to labor in the church save it were to declare the truth, that we may have rejoicings in the ajoy of our brethren?
Then why sayest thou that we preach unto this people to get gain, when thou, of thyself, knowest that we receive no gain?
And now, believest thou that we deceive this people, that acauses such joy in their hearts?
And Korihor answered him, Yea.
And then Alma said unto him: Believest thou that there is a God?
And he answered, Nay.
Now Alma said unto him: Will ye deny again that there is a God, and also deny the Christ?
For behold, I say unto you, I know there is a God, and also that Christ shall come.
And now what evidence have ye that there is no aGod, or that Christ cometh not?
I say unto you that ye have none, save it be your word only.
But, behold, I have all things as a atestimony that these things are true; and ye also have all things as a testimony unto you that they are true; and will ye deny them?
Believest thou that these things are true?
Behold, I know that thou abelievest, but thou art possessed with a blying spirit, and ye have put coff the Spirit of God that it may have no place in you; but the devil has power over you, and he doth carry you about, working devices that he may destroy the children of God.
And now Korihor said unto Alma: If thou wilt show me a asign, that I may be convinced that there is a God, yea, show unto me that he hath power, and then will I be convinced of the truth of thy words.
But Alma said unto him: Thou hast had signs enough; will ye tempt your God?
Will ye say, Show unto me a sign, when ye have the testimony of aall these thy brethren, and also all the holy prophets?
The scriptures are laid before thee, yea, and all things denote there is a God; yea, even the bearth, and call things that are upon the face of it, yea, and its dmotion, yea, and also all the eplanets which move in their regular form do witness that there is a Supreme Creator.
And yet do ye go about, leading away the hearts of this people, testifying unto them there is no God?
And yet will ye deny against all these awitnesses?
And he said: Yea, I will deny, except ye shall show me a sign.
And now it came to pass that Alma said unto him: Behold, I am grieved because of the hardness of your heart, yea, that ye will still resist the spirit of the truth, that thy soul may be destroyed.
But behold, it is abetter that thy soul should be blost than that thou shouldst be the means of bringing many souls down to destruction, by thy lying and by thy flattering words; therefore if thou shalt deny again, behold God shall smite thee, that thou shalt become dumb, that thou shalt never open thy mouth any more, that thou shalt not deceive this people any more.
Now Korihor said unto him: I do not deny the existence of a God, but I do not believe that there is a God; and I say also, that ye do not know that there is a God; and except ye show me a sign, I will not believe.
Now Alma said unto him: This will I give unto thee for a sign, that thou shalt be astruck dumb, according to my words; and I say, that in the name of God, ye shall be struck dumb, that ye shall no more have utterance.
Now when Alma had said these words, Korihor was struck dumb, that he could not have utterance, according to the words of Alma.
And now when the chief judge saw this, he put forth his hand and wrote unto Korihor, saying: Art thou convinced of the power of God?
In whom did ye desire that Alma should show forth his sign?
Would ye that he should afflict others, to show unto thee a sign?
Behold, he has showed unto you a sign; and now will ye dispute more?
And Korihor put forth his hand and wrote, saying: I know that I am dumb, for I cannot speak; and I know that nothing save it were the apower of God could bring this upon me; yea, and I always bknew that there was a God.
But behold, the devil hath adeceived me; for he bappeared unto me in the cform of an angel, and said unto me: Go and reclaim this people, for they have all gone astray after an unknown God.
And he said unto me: There is dno God; yea, and he taught me that which I should say.
And I have taught his words; and I taught them because they were pleasing unto the ecarnal mind; and I taught them, even until I had much success, insomuch that I verily believed that they were true; and for this cause I withstood the truth, even until I have brought this great fcurse upon me.
Now when he had said this, he besought that Alma should pray unto God, that the acurse might be taken from him.
But Alma said unto him: If this curse should be taken from thee thou wouldst again lead away the hearts of this people; therefore, it shall be unto thee even as the Lord will.
And it came to pass that the curse was not taken off of Korihor; but he was acast out, and went about from house to house begging for his food.
Now the knowledge of what had happened unto Korihor was immediately published throughout all the land; yea, the proclamation was sent forth by the chief judge to all the people in the land, declaring unto those who had believed in the words of Korihor that they must speedily repent, alest the same judgments would come unto them.
And it came to pass that they were all convinced of the wickedness of Korihor; therefore they were all converted again unto the Lord; and this put an end to the iniquity after the manner of Korihor.
And Korihor did go about from house to house, begging food for his support.
And it came to pass that as he went forth among the people, yea, among a people who had separated themselves from the Nephites and called themselves aZoramites, being led by a man whose name was Zoram—and as he went forth amongst them, behold, he was run upon and trodden down, even until he was bdead.
And thus we see the end of him who aperverteth the ways of the Lord; and thus we see that the devil will not bsupport his children at the last day, but doth speedily drag them down to chell.
 Now it came to pass that after the end of Korihor, Alma having received tidings that the Zoramites were perverting the ways of the Lord, and that Zoram, who was their leader, was leading the hearts of the people to abow down to dumb bidols, his heart again began to csicken because of the iniquity of the people.
For it was the cause of great asorrow to Alma to know of iniquity among his people; therefore his heart was exceedingly bsorrowful because of the separation of the Zoramites from the Nephites.
Now the Zoramites had gathered themselves together in a land which they called aAntionum, which was east of the land of Zarahemla, which lay nearly bordering upon the seashore, which was south of the land of bJershon, which also bordered upon the wilderness south, which wilderness was full of the Lamanites.
Now the Nephites greatly feared that the Zoramites would enter into a acorrespondence with the Lamanites, and that it would be the means of great loss on the part of the Nephites.
And now, as the apreaching of the bword had a great tendency to clead the people to do that which was just—yea, it had had more powerful effect upon the minds of the people than the sword, or anything else, which had happened unto them—therefore Alma thought it was expedient that they should try the virtue of the word of God.
Therefore he took Ammon, and Aaron, and Omner; and Himni he did leave in the church in Zarahemla; but the former three he took with him, and also aAmulek and Zeezrom, who were at bMelek; and he also took two of his sons.
Now the eldest of his sons he took not with him, and his name was Helaman; but the names of those whom he took with him were aShiblon and bCorianton; and these are the names of those who went with him among the cZoramites, to preach unto them the word.
Now the Zoramites were adissenters from the Nephites; therefore they had had the word of God preached unto them.
But they had afallen into great errors, for they would not observe to keep the commandments of God, and his statutes, according to the law of Moses.
Neither would they observe the aperformances of the church, to continue in prayer and supplication to God daily, that they might not enter into temptation.
Yea, in fine, they did pervert the ways of the Lord in very many instances; therefore, for this cause, Alma and his brethren went into the land to preach the word unto them.
Now, when they had come into the land, behold, to their astonishment they found that the Zoramites had built synagogues, and that they did gather themselves together on one day of the week, which day they did call the day of the Lord; and they did aworship after a manner which Alma and his brethren had never beheld; For they had a place built up in the center of their synagogue, a place for standing, which was high above the head; and the top thereof would only admit one person.
Therefore, whosoever desired to aworship must go forth and stand upon the top thereof, and stretch forth his hands towards heaven, and cry with a loud voice, saying: Holy, holy God; we believe that thou art God, and we believe that thou art holy, and that thou wast a aspirit, and that thou art a spirit, and that thou wilt be a spirit forever.
Holy God, we believe that thou hast separated us from our brethren; and we do not believe in the tradition of our brethren, which was handed down to them by the childishness of their fathers; but we believe that thou hast aelected us to be thy bholy children; and also thou hast made it known unto us that cthere shall be dno Christ.
But thou art the same yesterday, today, and forever; and thou hast aelected us that we shall be saved, whilst all around us are elected to be cast by thy wrath down to hell; for the which holiness, O God, we thank thee; and we also thank thee that thou hast elected us, that we may not be led away after the foolish traditions of our brethren, which doth bbind them down to a belief of Christ, which doth lead their hearts to wander far from thee, our God.
And again we thank thee, O God, that we are a chosen and a holy people.
Amen.
Now it came to pass that after Alma and his brethren and his sons had heard these prayers, they were astonished beyond all measure.
For behold, every man did go forth and offer up these same aprayers.
Now the place was called by them Rameumptom, which, being interpreted, is the holy stand.
Now, from this stand they did offer up, every man, the selfsame prayer unto God, thanking their God that they were chosen of him, and that he did not lead them away after the tradition of their brethren, and that their hearts were not stolen away to believe in things to come, which they knew nothing about.
Now, after the people had all offered up thanks after this manner, they returned to their homes, anever speaking of their God again until they had assembled themselves together again to the holy stand, to offer up thanks after their manner.
Now when Alma saw this his heart was agrieved; for he saw that they were a wicked and a perverse people; yea, he saw that their hearts were set upon gold, and upon silver, and upon all manner of fine goods.
Yea, and he also saw that their hearts were alifted up unto great boasting, in their pride.
And he lifted up his voice to heaven, and acried, saying: O, how long, O Lord, wilt thou suffer that thy servants shall dwell here below in the flesh, to behold such gross wickedness among the children of men?
Behold, O God, they acry unto thee, and yet their hearts are swallowed up in their pride.
Behold, O God, they cry unto thee with their mouths, while they are bpuffed up, even to greatness, with the vain things of the cworld.
Behold, O my God, their costly apparel, and their ringlets, and their abracelets, and their ornaments of gold, and all their precious things which they are ornamented with; and behold, their hearts are set upon them, and yet they cry unto thee and say—We thank thee, O God, for we are a chosen people unto thee, while others shall perish.
Yea, and they say that thou hast made it known unto them that there shall be no Christ.
O Lord God, how long wilt thou suffer that such wickedness and infidelity shall be among this people?
O Lord, wilt thou give me strength, that I may abear with mine infirmities.
For I am infirm, and such wickedness among this people doth pain my soul.
O Lord, my heart is exceedingly sorrowful; wilt thou comfort my soul ain Christ.
O Lord, wilt thou grant unto me that I may have strength, that I may suffer with patience these bafflictions which shall come upon me, because of the iniquity of this people.
O Lord, wilt thou comfort my soul, and give unto me success, and also my fellow laborers who are with me—yea, Ammon, and Aaron, and Omner, and also aAmulek and Zeezrom, and also my btwo sons—yea, even all these wilt thou comfort, O Lord.
Yea, wilt thou comfort their souls in Christ.
Wilt thou grant unto them that they may have strength, that they may abear their afflictions which shall come upon them because of the iniquities of this people.
O Lord, wilt thou grant aunto us that we may have success in bringing them again unto thee in Christ.
Behold, O Lord, their asouls are precious, and many of them are our brethren; therefore, give unto us, O Lord, power and wisdom that we may bring these, our brethren, again unto thee.
Now it came to pass that when Alma had said these words, that he aclapped his bhands upon all them who were with him.
And behold, as he clapped his hands upon them, they were filled with the Holy Spirit.
And after that they did separate themselves one from another, ataking no thought for themselves what they should eat, or what they should drink, or what they should put on.
And the Lord provided for them that they should hunger not, neither should they thirst; yea, and he also gave them strength, that they should suffer no manner of aafflictions, save it were swallowed up in the joy of Christ.
Now this was according to the prayer of Alma; and this because he prayed in bfaith.
 And it came to pass that they did go forth, and began to preach the word of God unto the people, entering into their synagogues, and into their houses; yea, and even they did preach the word in their streets.
And it came to pass that after much labor among them, they began to have success among the apoor class of people; for behold, they were cast out of the synagogues because of the coarseness of their apparel— Therefore they were not permitted to enter into their synagogues to worship God, being esteemed as filthiness; therefore they were poor; yea, they were esteemed by their brethren as adross; therefore they were bpoor as to things of the world; and also they were poor in heart.
Now, as Alma was teaching and speaking unto the people upon the hill aOnidah, there came a great bmultitude unto him, who were those of whom we have been speaking, of whom were cpoor in heart, because of their poverty as to the things of the world.
And they came unto Alma; and the one who was the foremost among them said unto him: Behold, awhat shall these my brethren do, for they are bdespised of all men because of their poverty, yea, and more especially by our priests; for they have ccast us out of our synagogues which we have labored abundantly to build with our own hands; and they have cast us out because of our exceeding poverty; and we have dno place to worship our God; and behold, ewhat shall we do?
And now when Alma heard this, he turned him about, his face immediately towards him, and he beheld with great joy; for he beheld that their aafflictions had truly bhumbled them, and that they were in a cpreparation to hear the word.
Therefore he did say no more to the other multitude; but he stretched forth his hand, and cried unto those whom he beheld, who were truly penitent, and said unto them: I behold that ye are alowly in heart; and if so, blessed are ye.
Behold thy brother hath said, What shall we do?—for we are cast out of our synagogues, that we cannot worship our God.
Behold I say unto you, do ye suppose that ye acannot worship God save it be in your synagogues only?
And moreover, I would ask, do ye suppose that ye must not worship God only aonce in a week?
I say unto you, it is well that ye are cast out of your synagogues, that ye may be humble, and that ye may learn awisdom; for it is necessary that ye should learn wisdom; for it is because that ye are cast out, that ye are despised of your brethren because of your exceeding bpoverty, that ye are brought to a lowliness of heart; for ye are necessarily brought to be humble.
And now, because ye are compelled to be humble blessed are ye; for a man sometimes, if he is compelled to be humble, seeketh arepentance; and now surely, whosoever repenteth shall find mercy; and he that findeth mercy and bendureth to the end the same shall be saved.
And now, as I said unto you, that because ye were compelled to be ahumble ye were blessed, do ye not suppose that they are more blessed who truly humble themselves because of the word?
Yea, he that truly humbleth himself, and repenteth of his sins, and endureth to the end, the same shall be blessed—yea, much more blessed than they who are compelled to be humble because of their exceeding poverty.
Therefore, blessed are they who ahumble themselves without being bcompelled to be humble; or rather, in other words, blessed is he that believeth in the word of God, and is baptized without cstubbornness of heart, yea, without being brought to know the word, or even compelled to know, before they will believe.
Yea, there are many who do say: If thou wilt show unto us a asign from heaven, then we shall know of a surety; then we shall believe.
Now I ask, is this faith?
Behold, I say unto you, Nay; for if a man knoweth a thing he hath no cause to abelieve, for he knoweth it.
And now, how much amore bcursed is he that cknoweth the dwill of God and doeth it not, than he that only believeth, or only hath cause to believe, and falleth into etransgression?
Now of this thing ye must judge.
Behold, I say unto you, that it is on the one hand even as it is on the other; and it shall be unto every man according to his work.
And now as I said concerning faith—afaith is not to have a perfect knowledge of things; therefore if ye have faith ye bhope for things which are cnot seen, which are true.
And now, behold, I say unto you, and I would that ye should remember, that God is amerciful unto all who believe on his name; therefore he desireth, in the first place, that ye should believe, yea, even on his word.
And now, he imparteth his word by angels unto men, yea, anot only men but women also.
Now this is not all; little bchildren do have words given unto them many times, which cconfound the wise and the learned.
And now, my beloved brethren, as ye have desired to know of me what ye shall do because ye are afflicted and cast out—now I do not desire that ye should suppose that I mean to judge you only according to that which is true— For I do not mean that ye all of you have been compelled to humble yourselves; for I verily believe that there are some among you who awould humble themselves, let them be in whatsoever circumstances they might.
Now, as I said concerning faith—that it was not a perfect knowledge—even so it is with my words.
Ye cannot know of their surety at first, unto perfection, any more than faith is a perfect knowledge.
But behold, if ye will awake and arouse your faculties, even to an experiment upon my words, and exercise a particle of faith, yea, even if ye can no more than adesire to believe, let this desire work in you, even until ye believe in a manner that ye can give place for a portion of my words.
Now, we will compare the word unto a aseed.
Now, if ye give place, that a bseed may be planted in your cheart, behold, if it be a true seed, or a good seed, if ye do not cast it out by your dunbelief, that ye will resist the Spirit of the Lord, behold, it will begin to swell within your breasts; and when you feel these swelling motions, ye will begin to say within yourselves—It must needs be that this is a good seed, or that the word is good, for it beginneth to enlarge my soul; yea, it beginneth to eenlighten my funderstanding, yea, it beginneth to be delicious to me.
Now behold, would not this increase your faith?
I say unto you, Yea; nevertheless it hath not grown up to a perfect knowledge.
But behold, as the seed swelleth, and sprouteth, and beginneth to grow, then you must needs say that the seed is good; for behold it swelleth, and sprouteth, and beginneth to grow.
And now, behold, will not this strengthen your faith?
Yea, it will strengthen your faith: for ye will say I know that this is a good seed; for behold it sprouteth and beginneth to grow.
And now, behold, are ye sure that this is a good seed?
I say unto you, Yea; for every seed bringeth forth unto its own alikeness.
Therefore, if a seed groweth it is good, but if it groweth not, behold it is not good, therefore it is cast away.
And now, behold, because ye have tried the experiment, and planted the seed, and it swelleth and sprouteth, and beginneth to grow, ye must needs know that the seed is good.
And now, behold, is your aknowledge bperfect?
Yea, your knowledge is perfect in that thing, and your cfaith is dormant; and this because you know, for ye know that the word hath swelled your souls, and ye also know that it hath sprouted up, that your understanding doth begin to be enlightened, and your dmind doth begin to expand.
O then, is not this real?
I say unto you, Yea, because it is alight; and whatsoever is light, is bgood, because it is discernible, therefore ye must know that it is good; and now behold, after ye have tasted this light is your knowledge perfect?
Behold I say unto you, Nay; neither must ye lay aside your faith, for ye have only exercised your faith to plant the seed that ye might try the experiment to know if the seed was good.
And behold, as the tree beginneth to grow, ye will say: Let us nourish it with great care, that it may get root, that it may grow up, and bring forth fruit unto us.
And now behold, if ye nourish it with much care it will get root, and grow up, and bring forth fruit.
But if ye aneglect the tree, and take no thought for its nourishment, behold it will not get any root; and when the heat of the sun cometh and scorcheth it, because it hath no root it withers away, and ye pluck it up and cast it out.
Now, this is not because the seed was not good, neither is it because the fruit thereof would not be desirable; but it is because your aground is bbarren, and ye will not nourish the tree, therefore ye cannot have the fruit thereof.
And thus, if ye will not nourish the word, looking forward with an eye of faith to the fruit thereof, ye can never pluck of the fruit of the atree of life.
But if ye will nourish the word, yea, nourish the tree as it beginneth to grow, by your faith with great diligence, and with apatience, looking forward to the fruit thereof, it shall take root; and behold it shall be a tree bspringing up unto everlasting life.
And because of your adiligence and your faith and your patience with the word in nourishing it, that it may take root in you, behold, by and by ye shall pluck the bfruit thereof, which is most precious, which is sweet above all that is sweet, and which is white above all that is white, yea, and pure above all that is pure; and ye shall feast upon this fruit even until ye are filled, that ye hunger not, neither shall ye thirst.
Then, my brethren, ye shall areap the brewards of your faith, and your diligence, and patience, and long-suffering, waiting for the tree to bring forth cfruit unto you.
 Now after Alma had spoken these words, they sent forth unto him desiring to know whether they should believe in aone God, that they might obtain this fruit of which he had spoken, or bhow they should plant the cseed, or the word of which he had spoken, which he said must be planted in their hearts; or in what manner they should begin to exercise their faith.
And Alma said unto them: Behold, ye have said that ye acould not bworship your God because ye are cast out of your synagogues.
But behold, I say unto you, if ye suppose that ye cannot worship God, ye do greatly err, and ye ought to search the cscriptures; if ye suppose that they have taught you this, ye do not understand them.
Do ye remember to have read what aZenos, the prophet of old, has said concerning prayer or bworship?
For he said: Thou art merciful, O God, for thou hast heard my prayer, even when I was ain the wilderness; yea, thou wast merciful when I prayed concerning those who were mine benemies, and thou didst turn them to me.
Yea, O God, and thou wast merciful unto me when I did cry unto thee in my afield; when I did cry unto thee in my prayer, and thou didst hear me.
And again, O God, when I did turn to my house thou didst hear me in my prayer.
And when I did turn unto my acloset, O Lord, and prayed unto thee, thou didst hear me.
Yea, thou art merciful unto thy children when they cry unto thee, to be heard of thee and not of men, and thou awilt hear them.
Yea, O God, thou hast been merciful unto me, and heard my cries in the midst of thy congregations.
Yea, and thou hast also heard me when I have been acast out and have been despised by mine enemies; yea, thou didst hear my cries, and wast angry with mine enemies, and thou didst bvisit them in thine anger with speedy destruction.
And thou didst hear me because of mine afflictions and my asincerity; and it is because of thy Son that thou hast been thus merciful unto me, therefore I will cry unto thee in all mine bafflictions, for in thee is my joy; for thou hast turned thy judgments away from me, cbecause of thy Son.
And now Alma said unto them: Do ye abelieve those scriptures which have been written by them of old?
Behold, if ye do, ye must believe what aZenos said; for, behold he said: Thou hast turned away thy judgments because of thy Son.
Now behold, my brethren, I would ask if ye have read the scriptures?
If ye have, how can ye adisbelieve on the Son of God?
For it is anot written that Zenos alone spake of these things, but bZenock also spake of these things— For behold, he said: Thou art angry, O Lord, with this people, because they awill not understand thy mercies which thou hast bestowed upon them because of thy Son.
And now, my brethren, ye see that a second prophet of old has testified of the Son of God, and because the people would not understand his words they astoned him to death.
But behold, this is not all; these are not the only ones who have spoken concerning the Son of God.
Behold, he was spoken of by aMoses; yea, and behold a btype was craised up in the wilderness, that whosoever would look upon it might live.
And many did look and live.
But few understood the meaning of those things, and this because of the hardness of their hearts.
But there were many who were so hardened that they would not look, therefore they perished.
Now the reason they would not look is because they did not believe that it would aheal them.
O my brethren, if ye could be healed by merely casting about your eyes that ye might be healed, would ye not behold quickly, or would ye rather harden your hearts in aunbelief, and be bslothful, that ye would not cast about your eyes, that ye might perish?
If so, wo shall come upon you; but if not so, then cast about your eyes and abegin to believe in the Son of God, that he will come to redeem his people, and that he shall suffer and die to batone for their sins; and that he shall crise again from the dead, which shall bring to pass the dresurrection, that all men shall stand before him, to be ejudged at the last and judgment day, according to their fworks.
And now, my brethren, I desire that ye shall aplant this word in your hearts, and as it beginneth to swell even so nourish it by your faith.
And behold, it will become a tree, bspringing up in you unto ceverlasting life.
And then may God grant unto you that your dburdens may be light, through the joy of his Son.
And even all this can ye do if ye ewill.
Amen.
 And now it came to pass that after Alma had spoken these words unto them he sat down upon the ground, and aAmulek arose and began to teach them, saying: My brethren, I think that it is impossible that ye should be ignorant of the things which have been spoken concerning the coming of Christ, who is taught by us to be the Son of God; yea, I know that athese things were taught unto you bountifully before your dissension from among us.
And as ye have desired of my beloved brother that he should make known unto you awhat ye should do, because of your afflictions; and he hath spoken somewhat unto you to prepare your minds; yea, and he hath exhorted you unto faith and to patience— Yea, even that ye would have so much faith as even to aplant the word in your hearts, that ye may try the experiment of its goodness.
And we have beheld that the great question which is in your minds is whether the word be in the Son of God, or whether there shall be ano Christ.
And ye also beheld that my brother has proved unto you, in many instances, that the aword is in Christ unto salvation.
My brother has called upon the words of aZenos, that redemption cometh through the Son of God, and also upon the words of bZenock; and also he has appealed unto cMoses, to prove that these things are true.
And now, behold, I will atestify unto you of myself that these things are true.
Behold, I say unto you, that I do know that Christ shall come among the children of men, to take upon him the btransgressions of his people, and that he shall catone for the sins of the world; for the Lord God hath spoken it.
For it is expedient that an aatonement should be made; for according to the great bplan of the Eternal God there must be an atonement made, or else all mankind must unavoidably perish; yea, all are hardened; yea, all are cfallen and are lost, and must perish except it be through the atonement which it is expedient should be made.
For it is expedient that there should be a great and last asacrifice; yea, not a bsacrifice of man, neither of beast, neither of any manner of fowl; for it shall not be a human sacrifice; but it must be an cinfinite and deternal esacrifice.
Now there is not any man that can sacrifice his own blood which will atone for the sins of another.
Now, if a man murdereth, behold will our law, which is ajust, take the life of his brother?
I say unto you, Nay.
But the law requireth the alife of him who hath bmurdered; therefore there can be nothing which is short of an infinite atonement which will suffice for the sins of the world.
Therefore, it is expedient that there should be a great and last sacrifice, and then shall there be, or it is expedient there should be, a astop to the shedding of bblood; then shall the claw of Moses be fulfilled; yea, it shall be all fulfilled, every jot and tittle, and none shall have passed away.
And behold, this is the whole ameaning of the blaw, every whit cpointing to that great and last dsacrifice; and that great and last esacrifice will be the Son of God, yea, finfinite and eternal.
And thus he shall bring asalvation to all those who shall believe on his name; this being the intent of this last sacrifice, to bring about the bowels of mercy, which overpowereth justice, and bringeth about means unto men that they may have faith unto repentance.
And thus amercy can satisfy the demands of bjustice, and encircles them in the arms of safety, while he that exercises no faith unto repentance is exposed to the whole law of the demands of cjustice; therefore only unto him that has faith unto repentance is brought about the great and eternal dplan of eredemption.
Therefore may God grant unto you, my brethren, that ye may begin to exercise your afaith unto repentance, that ye begin to bcall upon his holy name, that he would have mercy upon you; Yea, cry unto him for mercy; for he is amighty to save.
Yea, humble yourselves, and continue in aprayer unto him.
Cry unto him when ye are in your afields, yea, over all your flocks.
aCry unto him in your houses, yea, over all your household, both morning, mid-day, and evening.
Yea, cry unto him against the power of your aenemies.
Yea, acry unto him against the bdevil, who is an enemy to all crighteousness.
Cry unto him over the crops of your fields, that ye may prosper in them.
Cry over the flocks of your fields, that they may increase.
But this is not all; ye must apour out your souls in your bclosets, and your secret places, and in your wilderness.
Yea, and when you do not cry unto the Lord, let your ahearts be bfull, drawn out in prayer unto him continually for your cwelfare, and also for the welfare of dthose who are around you.
And now behold, my beloved brethren, I say unto you, do not suppose that this is all; for after ye have done all these things, if ye aturn away the bneedy, and the cnaked, and visit not the sick and afflicted, and dimpart of your substance, if ye have, to those who stand in need—I say unto you, if ye do not any of these things, behold, your eprayer is fvain, and availeth you nothing, and ye are as ghypocrites who do deny the faith.
Therefore, if ye do not remember to be acharitable, ye are as dross, which the refiners do cast out, (it being of no worth) and is trodden under foot of men.
And now, my brethren, I would that, after ye have areceived so many witnesses, seeing that the holy scriptures testify of these things, ye come forth and bring bfruit unto repentance.
Yea, I would that ye would come forth and aharden not your hearts any longer; for behold, now is the time and the bday of your csalvation; and therefore, if ye will repent and dharden not your hearts, immediately shall the great plan of redemption be brought about unto you.
For behold, this alife is the time for men to bprepare to meet God; yea, behold the day of cthis life is the day for men to perform their dlabors.
And now, as I said unto you before, as ye have had so many awitnesses, therefore, I beseech of you that ye do not bprocrastinate the day of your crepentance until the end; for after this day of life, which is given us to prepare for eternity, behold, if we do not improve our time while in this life, then cometh the dnight of edarkness wherein there can be no labor performed.
Ye cannot say, when ye are brought to that awful acrisis, that I will repent, that I will return to my God.
Nay, ye cannot say this; for that same spirit which doth bpossess your bodies at the time that ye go out of this life, that same spirit will have power to possess your body in that eternal world.
For behold, if ye have procrastinated the day of your repentance even until death, behold, ye have become asubjected to the spirit of the devil, and he doth bseal you his; therefore, the Spirit of the Lord hath withdrawn from you, and hath no place in you, and the devil hath all power over you; and this is the final state of the wicked.
And this I know, because the Lord hath said he dwelleth not in aunholy temples, but in the bhearts of the crighteous doth he dwell; yea, and he has also said that the righteous shall sit down in his kingdom, to go no more out; but their garments should be made white through the dblood of the Lamb.
And now, my beloved brethren, I desire that ye should remember these things, and that ye should awork out your salvation with fear before God, and that ye should no more deny the coming of Christ; That ye acontend no more against the Holy Ghost, but that ye receive it, and take upon you the bname of Christ; that ye humble yourselves even to the dust, and cworship God, in whatsoever place ye may be in, in spirit and in truth; and that ye live in dthanksgiving daily, for the many emercies and blessings which he doth bestow upon you.
Yea, and I also aexhort you, my brethren, that ye be bwatchful unto prayer continually, that ye may not be led away by the ctemptations of the devil, that he may not overpower you, that ye may not become his subjects at the last day; for behold, he rewardeth you dno good thing.
And now my beloved brethren, I would exhort you to have apatience, and that ye bear with all manner of bafflictions; that ye do not crevile against those who do cast you out because of your dexceeding poverty, lest ye become sinners like unto them; But that ye have apatience, and bear with those bafflictions, with a firm hope that ye shall one day rest from all your afflictions.
 Now it came to pass that after Amulek had made an end of these words, they withdrew themselves from the multitude and came over into the land of aJershon.
Yea, and the rest of the brethren, after they had preached the word unto the aZoramites, also came over into the land of Jershon.
And it came to pass that after the more popular part of the Zoramites had consulted together concerning the words which had been preached unto them, they were angry because of the word, for it did destroy their acraft; therefore they would not hearken unto the words.
And they sent and gathered together throughout all the land all the people, and consulted with them concerning the words which had been spoken.
Now their rulers and their priests and their teachers did not let the people know concerning their desires; therefore they found out privily the minds of all the people.
And it came to pass that after they had found out the minds of all the people, those who were in favor of the words which had been spoken by Alma and his brethren were cast out of the land; and they were amany; and they came over also into the land of Jershon.
And it came to pass that Alma and his brethren did minister unto them.
Now the people of the Zoramites were angry with the apeople of Ammon who were in Jershon, and the bchief ruler of the Zoramites, being a very wicked man, sent over unto the people of Ammon desiring them that they should cast out of their land all those who came over from them into their land.
And he breathed out many threatenings against them.
And now the people of Ammon did not fear their words; therefore they did not cast them out, but they did receive all the poor of the Zoramites that came over unto them; and they did anourish them, and did clothe them, and did give unto them lands for their inheritance; and they did administer unto them according to their wants.
Now this did astir up the Zoramites to banger against the people of Ammon, and they began to mix with the Lamanites and to stir them up also to anger against them.
And thus the Zoramites and the Lamanites began to make preparations for war against the people of Ammon, and also against the Nephites.
And thus ended the seventeenth year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi.
And the people of Ammon departed out of the land of Jershon, and came over into the land of Melek, and gave place in the land of Jershon for the armies of the Nephites, that they might contend with the armies of the Lamanites and the armies of the Zoramites; and thus commenced a war betwixt the Lamanites and the Nephites, in the eighteenth year of the reign of the judges; and an aaccount shall be given of their wars hereafter.
And Alma, and Ammon, and their brethren, and also the atwo sons of Alma returned to the land of Zarahemla, after having been instruments in the hands of God of bringing bmany of the cZoramites to repentance; and as many as were brought to repentance were driven out of their land; but they have lands for their inheritance in the land of Jershon, and they have taken up arms to defend themselves, and their wives, and children, and their lands.
Now Alma, being agrieved for the iniquity of his people, yea for the wars, and the bloodsheds, and the contentions which were among them; and having been to declare the word, or sent to declare the word, among all the people in every city; and seeing that the hearts of the people began to wax hard, and that they began to be boffended because of the strictness of the word, his heart was exceedingly sorrowful.
Therefore, he caused that his sons should be gathered together, that he might give unto them every one his acharge, separately, concerning the things pertaining unto righteousness.
And we have an account of his commandments, which he gave unto them according to his own record.
 My ason, give ear to my words; for I swear unto you, that inasmuch as ye shall keep the commandments of God ye shall prosper in the land.
I would that ye should do as I have done, in remembering the captivity of our fathers; for they were in abondage, and none could bdeliver them except it was the cGod of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob; and he surely did deliver them in their afflictions.
And now, O my son Helaman, behold, thou art in thy youth, and therefore, I beseech of thee that thou wilt hear my words and learn of me; for I do know that whosoever shall put their atrust in God shall be supported in their btrials, and their troubles, and their afflictions, and shall be clifted up at the last day.
And I would not that ye think that I aknow of myself—not of the temporal but of the spiritual, not of the bcarnal mind but of God.
Now, behold, I say unto you, if I had not been aborn of God I should bnot have known these things; but God has, by the mouth of his holy cangel, made these things known unto me, not of any dworthiness of myself; For I went about with the sons of Mosiah, seeking to adestroy the church of God; but behold, God sent his holy angel to stop us by the way.
And behold, he spake unto us, as it were the voice of thunder, and the whole earth did atremble beneath our feet; and we all fell to the earth, for the bfear of the Lord came upon us.
But behold, the voice said unto me: Arise.
And I arose and stood up, and beheld the angel.
And he said unto me: If thou wilt of thyself be destroyed, seek no more to destroy the church of God.
And it came to pass that I fell to the earth; and it was for the space of athree days and three nights that I could not open my mouth, neither had I the use of my limbs.
And the angel spake more things unto me, which were heard by my brethren, but I did anot hear them; for when I heard the words—If thou wilt be destroyed of thyself, seek no more to destroy the church of God—I was struck with such great fear and amazement lest perhaps I should be destroyed, that I fell to the earth and I did hear no more.
But I was racked with aeternal btorment, for my soul was charrowed up to the greatest degree and racked with all my sins.
Yea, I did remember all my sins and iniquities, for which I was atormented with the bpains of hell; yea, I saw that I had crebelled against my God, and that I had not kept his holy commandments.
Yea, and I had amurdered many of his children, or rather led them away unto destruction; yea, and in fine so great had been my iniquities, that the very thought of coming into the presence of my God did rack my soul with inexpressible horror.
Oh, thought I, that I acould be banished and become extinct both soul and body, that I might not be brought to stand in the presence of my God, to be judged of my bdeeds.
And now, for three days and for three nights was I racked, even with the apains of a bdamned soul.
And it came to pass that as I was thus aracked with torment, while I was bharrowed up by the cmemory of my many sins, behold, I dremembered also to have heard my father prophesy unto the people concerning the coming of one Jesus Christ, a Son of God, to atone for the sins of the world.
Now, as my mind caught hold upon this thought, I cried within my heart: O Jesus, thou Son of God, ahave mercy on me, who am bin the cgall of bitterness, and am encircled about by the everlasting dchains of edeath.
And now, behold, when I thought this, I could remember my apains bno more; yea, I was harrowed up by the memory of my sins no more.
And oh, what ajoy, and what marvelous light I did behold; yea, my soul was filled with joy as exceeding as was my pain!
Yea, I say unto you, my son, that there could be nothing so exquisite and so bitter as were my pains.
Yea, and again I say unto you, my son, that on the other hand, there can be nothing so exquisite and sweet as was my joy.
Yea, methought I saw, even as our father aLehi saw, God sitting upon his throne, surrounded with numberless concourses of angels, in the attitude of singing and bpraising their God; yea, and my soul did long to be there.
But behold, my limbs did receive their astrength again, and I stood upon my feet, and did manifest unto the people that I had been bborn of God.
Yea, and from that time even until now, I have labored without ceasing, that I might bring souls unto arepentance; that I might bring them to btaste of the exceeding joy of which I did taste; that they might also be cborn of God, and be dfilled with the Holy Ghost.
Yea, and now behold, O my son, the Lord doth agive me exceedingly great joy in the fruit of my blabors; For because of the aword which he has imparted unto me, behold, many have been born of God, and have btasted as I have tasted, and have seen eye to eye as I have seen; therefore they do know of these things of which I have spoken, as I do know; and the knowledge which I have is of God.
And I have been supported under trials and troubles of every kind, yea, and in all manner of afflictions; yea, God has adelivered me from prison, and from bonds, and from death; yea, and I do put my trust in him, and he will still bdeliver me.
And I know that he will araise me up at the last day, to dwell with him in bglory; yea, and I will cpraise him forever, for he has dbrought our fathers out of Egypt, and he has swallowed up the eEgyptians in the Red Sea; and he led them by his power into the promised land; yea, and he has delivered them out of bondage and captivity from time to time.
Yea, and he has also brought our fathers out of the land of Jerusalem; and he has also, by his everlasting power, delivered them out of abondage and captivity, from time to time even down to the present day; and I have always retained in remembrance their captivity; yea, and ye also ought to retain in remembrance, as I have done, their captivity.
But behold, my son, this is not all; for ye ought to know as I do know, that ainasmuch as ye shall keep the commandments of God ye shall bprosper in the land; and ye ought to know also, that inasmuch as ye will not keep the commandments of God ye shall be cut off from his presence.
Now this is according to his word.
 And now, my son Helaman, I command you that ye take the arecords which have been bentrusted with me; And I also command you that ye keep a arecord of this people, according as I have done, upon the plates of Nephi, and keep all these things sacred which I have kept, even as I have kept them; for it is for a bwise purpose that they are kept.
And these aplates of brass, which contain these engravings, which have the records of the holy scriptures upon them, which have the bgenealogy of our forefathers, even from the beginning— Behold, it has been prophesied by our fathers, that they should be kept and ahanded down from one generation to another, and be kept and preserved by the hand of the Lord until they should go forth unto every nation, kindred, tongue, and people, that they shall know of the bmysteries contained thereon.
And now behold, if they are kept they must retain their brightness; yea, and they will retain their brightness; yea, and also shall all the plates which do contain that which is holy writ.
Now ye may suppose that this is afoolishness in me; but behold I say unto you, that by bsmall and simple things are great things brought to pass; and small means in many instances doth confound the wise.
And the Lord God doth work by ameans to bring about his great and eternal purposes; and by very bsmall means the Lord doth cconfound the wise and bringeth about the salvation of many souls.
And now, it has hitherto been wisdom in God that these things should be preserved; for behold, athey have benlarged the memory of this people, yea, and convinced many of the error of their ways, and brought them to the cknowledge of their God unto the salvation of their souls.
Yea, I say unto you, awere it not for these things that these records do contain, which are on these plates, Ammon and his brethren could not have bconvinced so many thousands of the Lamanites of the incorrect tradition of their fathers; yea, these records and their cwords brought them unto repentance; that is, they brought them to the knowledge of the Lord their God, and to rejoice in Jesus Christ their Redeemer.
And who knoweth but what they will be the ameans of bringing many thousands of them, yea, and also many thousands of our bstiffnecked brethren, the Nephites, who are now hardening their hearts in sin and iniquities, to the knowledge of their Redeemer?
Now these mysteries are not yet fully made known unto me; therefore I shall forbear.
And it may suffice if I only say they are preserved for a awise purpose, which purpose is known unto God; for he doth bcounsel in wisdom over all his works, and his paths are straight, and his course is cone eternal round.
O remember, remember, my son Helaman, how astrict are the commandments of God.
And he said: bIf ye will keep my commandments ye shall cprosper in the land—but if ye keep not his commandments ye shall be cut off from his presence.
And now remember, my son, that God has aentrusted you with these things, which are bsacred, which he has kept sacred, and also which he will keep and cpreserve for a dwise purpose in him, that he may show forth his power unto future generations.
And now behold, I tell you by the spirit of prophecy, that if ye transgress the commandments of God, behold, these things which are sacred shall be taken away from you by the power of God, and ye shall be delivered up unto Satan, that he may sift you as chaff before the wind.
But if ye keep the commandments of God, and do with these things which are sacred according to that which the Lord doth command you, (for you must appeal unto the Lord for all things whatsoever ye must do with them) behold, no power of earth or hell can atake them from you, for God is powerful to the fulfilling of all his words.
For he will fulfil all his apromises which he shall make unto you, for he has fulfilled his promises which he has made unto our fathers.
For he promised unto them that he would apreserve these things for a wise purpose in him, that he might show forth his power unto future generations.
And now behold, one purpose hath he fulfilled, even to the restoration of amany thousands of the Lamanites to the knowledge of the truth; and he hath shown forth his power in them, and he will also still show forth his power in them unto bfuture generations; therefore they shall be preserved.
Therefore I command you, my son Helaman, that ye be diligent in fulfilling all my words, and that ye be diligent in keeping the commandments of God as they are written.
And now, I will speak unto you concerning those atwenty-four plates, that ye keep them, that the bmysteries and the works of darkness, and their secret works, or the secret works of those people who have been destroyed, may be made cmanifest unto this people; yea, all their murders, and robbings, and their plunderings, and all their wickedness and abominations, may be made manifest unto this people; yea, and that ye preserve these dinterpreters.
For behold, the Lord saw that his people began to work in darkness, yea, work secret murders and abominations; therefore the Lord said, if they did not repent they should be destroyed from off the face of the earth.
And the Lord said: I will prepare unto my servant Gazelem, a astone, which shall shine forth in darkness unto light, that I may bdiscover unto my people who serve me, that I may discover unto them the works of their brethren, yea, their secret works, their works of darkness, and their wickedness and abominations.
And now, my son, these ainterpreters were prepared that the word of God might be fulfilled, which he spake, saying: I will abring forth out of darkness unto light all their secret works and their abominations; and except they repent I will bdestroy them from off the face of the earth; and I will bring to light all their secrets and abominations, unto every nation that shall hereafter possess the land.
And now, my son, we see that they did not repent; therefore they have been destroyed, and thus far the word of God has been fulfilled; yea, their asecret abominations have been brought out of darkness and made known unto us.
And now, my son, I command you that ye retain all their oaths, and their covenants, and their agreements in their secret abominations; yea, and all their asigns and their wonders ye shall bkeep from this people, that they know them not, lest peradventure they should fall into darkness also and be destroyed.
For behold, there is a acurse upon all this land, that destruction shall come upon all those workers of darkness, according to the power of God, when they are fully ripe; therefore I desire that this people might not be destroyed.
Therefore ye shall keep these secret plans of their aoaths and their covenants from this people, and only their wickedness and their murders and their abominations shall ye make known unto them; and ye shall teach them to babhor such wickedness and abominations and murders; and ye shall also teach them that these people were destroyed on account of their wickedness and abominations and their murders.
For behold, they amurdered all the prophets of the Lord who came among them to declare unto them concerning their iniquities; and the blood of those whom they murdered did cry unto the Lord their God for vengeance upon those who were their murderers; and thus the judgments of God did come upon these workers of darkness and secret bcombinations.
Yea, and acursed be the land forever and ever unto those workers of darkness and secret combinations, even unto destruction, except they repent before they are fully bripe.
And now, my son, remember the words which I have spoken unto you; trust not those secret plans unto this people, but teach them an everlasting ahatred against sin and iniquity.
aPreach unto them repentance, and faith on the Lord Jesus Christ; teach them to humble themselves and to be bmeek and lowly in heart; teach them to cwithstand every dtemptation of the devil, with their faith on the Lord Jesus Christ.
Teach them to never be weary of good works, but to be meek and lowly in heart; for such shall find arest to their souls.
O, remember, my son, and alearn bwisdom in thy cyouth; yea, learn in thy youth to keep the commandments of God.
Yea, and acry unto God for all thy support; yea, let all thy bdoings be unto the Lord, and whithersoever thou goest let it be in the Lord; yea, let all thy cthoughts be directed unto the Lord; yea, let the affections of thy heart be placed upon the Lord forever.
aCounsel with the Lord in all thy doings, and he will direct thee for bgood; yea, when thou liest down at night lie down unto the Lord, that he may watch over you in your sleep; and when thou risest in the cmorning let thy heart be full of thanks unto God; and if ye do these things, ye shall be lifted up at the last day.
And now, my son, I have somewhat to say concerning the thing which our fathers call a ball, or director—or our fathers called it aLiahona, which is, being interpreted, a compass; and the Lord prepared it.
And behold, there cannot any man work after the manner of so curious a workmanship.
And behold, it was prepared to show unto our fathers the course which they should travel in the wilderness.
And it did work for them according to their afaith in God; therefore, if they had faith to believe that God could cause that those spindles should point the way they should go, behold, it was done; therefore they had this miracle, and also many other miracles wrought by the power of God, day by day.
Nevertheless, because those miracles were worked by asmall means it did show unto them marvelous works.
They were bslothful, and forgot to exercise their faith and diligence and then those marvelous works ceased, and they did not progress in their journey; Therefore, they tarried in the wilderness, or did anot travel a direct course, and were afflicted with hunger and thirst, because of their transgressions.
And now, my son, I would that ye should understand that these things are not without a ashadow; for as our fathers were slothful to give heed to this compass (now these things were temporal) they did not prosper; even so it is with things which are spiritual.
For behold, it is as easy to give heed to the aword of Christ, which will point to you a straight course to eternal bliss, as it was for our fathers to give heed to this compass, which would point unto them a straight course to the promised land.
And now I say, is there not a atype in this thing?
For just as surely as this director did bring our fathers, by following its course, to the promised land, shall the words of Christ, if we follow their course, carry us beyond this vale of sorrow into a far better land of promise.
O my son, do not let us be aslothful because of the beasiness of the cway; for so was it with our fathers; for so was it prepared for them, that if they would dlook they might elive; even so it is with us.
The way is prepared, and if we will look we may live forever.
And now, my son, see that ye take acare of these sacred things, yea, see that ye blook to God and live.
Go unto this people and declare the word, and be sober.
My son, farewell.
 My ason, give ear to my words, for I say unto you, even as I said unto Helaman, that binasmuch as ye shall keep the commandments of God ye shall prosper in the land; and inasmuch as ye will not keep the commandments of God ye shall be ccut off from his dpresence.
And now, my son, I trust that I shall have great joy in you, because of your asteadiness and your faithfulness unto God; for as you have commenced in your youth to look to the Lord your God, even so I hope that you will continue in keeping his commandments; for blessed is he that bendureth to the end.
I say unto you, my son, that I have had great joy in thee already, because of thy faithfulness and thy diligence, and thy patience and thy long-suffering among the people of the aZoramites.
For I know that thou wast in bonds; yea, and I also know that thou wast stoned for the word’s sake; and thou didst bear all these things with apatience because the Lord was bwith thee; and now thou knowest that the Lord did deliver thee.
And now my son, Shiblon, I would that ye should remember, that as much as ye shall put your atrust in God even so much ye shall be bdelivered out of your trials, and your ctroubles, and your afflictions, and ye shall be lifted up at the last day.
Now, my son, I would not that ye should think that I know these things of myself, but it is the Spirit of God which is in me which maketh these things known unto me; for if I had not been aborn of God I should not have known these things.
But behold, the Lord in his great mercy sent his aangel to declare unto me that I must stop the work of bdestruction among his people; yea, and I have seen an angel face to face, and he spake with me, and his voice was as thunder, and it shook the whole earth.
And it came to pass that I was athree days and three nights in the most bitter bpain and canguish of soul; and never, until I did cry out unto the Lord Jesus Christ for mercy, did I receive a dremission of my sins.
But behold, I did cry unto him and I did find peace to my soul.
And now, my son, I have told you this that ye may learn wisdom, that ye may learn of me that there is ano other way or means whereby man can be saved, only in and through Christ.
Behold, he is the life and the blight of the world.
Behold, he is the word of truth and crighteousness.
And now, as ye have begun to teach the word even so I would that ye should continue to teach; and I would that ye would be diligent and atemperate in all things.
See that ye are not lifted up unto pride; yea, see that ye do not aboast in your own wisdom, nor of your much strength.
Use aboldness, but not overbearance; and also see that ye bbridle all your passions, that ye may be filled with love; see that ye refrain from idleness.
Do not apray as the Zoramites do, for ye have seen that they pray to be heard of men, and to be praised for their wisdom.
Do not say: O God, I thank thee that we are abetter than our brethren; but rather say: O Lord, forgive my bunworthiness, and remember my brethren in mercy—yea, acknowledge your unworthiness before God at all times.
And may the Lord bless your soul, and receive you at the last day into his kingdom, to sit down in peace.
Now go, my son, and teach the word unto this people.
Be asober.
My son, farewell.
 And now, my ason, I have somewhat more to say unto thee than what I said unto thy brother; for behold, have ye not observed the steadiness of thy brother, his faithfulness, and his diligence in keeping the commandments of God?
Behold, has he not set a good bexample for thee?
For thou didst not give so much heed unto my words as did thy brother, among the people of the aZoramites.
Now this is what I have against thee; thou didst go on unto boasting in thy strength and thy wisdom.
And this is not all, my son.
Thou didst do that which was grievous unto me; for thou didst forsake the ministry, and did go over into the land of Siron among the borders of the Lamanites, after the aharlot Isabel.
Yea, she did asteal away the hearts of many; but this was no excuse for thee, my son.
Thou shouldst have tended to the ministry wherewith thou wast entrusted.
Know ye not, my son, that these things are an abomination in the sight of the Lord; yea, most aabominable above all sins save it be the shedding of innocent bblood or denying the Holy Ghost?
For behold, if ye adeny the Holy Ghost when it once has had place in you, and ye know that ye deny it, behold, this is a sin which is bunpardonable; yea, and whosoever murdereth against the light and knowledge of God, it is not easy for him to obtain cforgiveness; yea, I say unto you, my son, that it is not easy for him to obtain a forgiveness.
And now, my son, I would to God that ye had not been aguilty of so great a crime.
I would not dwell upon your crimes, to harrow up your soul, if it were not for your good.
But behold, ye cannot ahide your crimes from God; and except ye repent they will stand as a testimony against you at the last day.
Now my son, I would that ye should repent and forsake your sins, and go no more after the alusts of your eyes, but bcross yourself in all these things; for except ye do this ye can in nowise inherit the kingdom of God.
Oh, remember, and take it upon you, and ccross yourself in these things.
And I command you to take it upon you to counsel with your elder brothers in your undertakings; for behold, thou art in thy youth, and ye stand in need to be nourished by your brothers.
And give heed to their counsel.
Suffer not yourself to be led away by any vain or foolish thing; suffer not the devil to lead away your heart again after those wicked harlots.
Behold, O my son, how great ainiquity ye brought upon the bZoramites; for when they saw your cconduct they would not believe in my words.
And now the Spirit of the Lord doth say unto me: aCommand thy children to do good, lest they blead away the hearts of many people to destruction; therefore I command you, my son, in the fear of God, that ye crefrain from your iniquities; That ye turn to the Lord with all your mind, might, and strength; that ye lead away the hearts of no more to do wickedly; but rather return unto them, and aacknowledge your faults and that wrong which ye have done.
aSeek not after riches nor the vain things of this world; for behold, you cannot carry them with you.
And now, my son, I would say somewhat unto you concerning the acoming of Christ.
Behold, I say unto you, that it is he that surely shall come to take away the sins of the world; yea, he cometh to declare glad tidings of salvation unto his people.
And now, my son, this was the ministry unto which ye were called, to declare these glad tidings unto this people, to prepare their minds; or rather that salvation might come unto them, that they may prepare the minds of their achildren to hear the word at the time of his coming.
And now I will ease your mind somewhat on this subject.
Behold, you marvel why these things should be known so long beforehand.
Behold, I say unto you, is not a soul at this time as precious unto God as a soul will be at the time of his coming?
Is it not as necessary that the plan of redemption should be amade known unto this people as well as unto their children?
Is it not as easy at this time for the Lord to asend his angel to declare these glad tidings unto us as unto our children, or as after the time of his coming?
 Now it came to pass in the sixth year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi, there were no contentions nor wars in the aland of Zarahemla; But the people were afflicted, yea, greatly afflicted for the loss of their brethren, and also for the aloss of their flocks and herds, and also for the loss of their fields of grain, which were trodden under foot and destroyed by the Lamanites.
And so great were their afflictions that every soul had cause to mourn; and they believed that it was the judgments of God sent upon them because of their wickedness and their abominations; therefore they were aawakened to a remembrance of their duty.
And they began to establish the achurch more fully; yea, and many were bbaptized in the cwaters of Sidon and were joined to the church of God; yea, they were baptized by the hand of Alma, who had been consecrated the dhigh priest over the people of the church, by the hand of his father Alma.
And it came to pass in the seventh year of the reign of the judges there were about three thousand five hundred souls that united themselves to the achurch of God and were baptized.
And thus ended the seventh year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi; and there was continual peace in all that time.
And it came to pass in the eighth year of the reign of the judges, that the people of the church began to wax proud, because of their exceeding ariches, and their bfine silks, and their fine-twined linen, and because of their many flocks and herds, and their gold and their silver, and all manner of precious things, which they had obtained by their cindustry; and in all these things were they lifted up in the pride of their eyes, for they began to wear very costly dapparel.
Now this was the cause of much affliction to Alma, yea, and to many of the people whom Alma had consecrated to be ateachers, and bpriests, and celders over the church; yea, many of them were sorely grieved for the wickedness which they saw had begun to be among their people.
For they saw and beheld with great sorrow that the people of the church began to be lifted up in the pride of their eyes, and to set their ahearts upon riches and upon the vain things of the world, that they began to be scornful, one towards another, and they began to persecute those that did bnot believe according to their own will and pleasure.
And thus, in this eighth year of the reign of the judges, there began to be great acontentions among the people of the church; yea, there were benvyings, and cstrife, and malice, and persecutions, and pride, even to exceed the pride of those who did not belong to the church of God.
And thus ended the eighth year of the reign of the judges; and the wickedness of the church was a great astumbling-block to those who did not belong to the church; and thus the church began to fail in its progress.
And it came to pass in the commencement of the ninth year, Alma saw the wickedness of the church, and he saw also that the aexample of the church began to lead those who were unbelievers on from one piece of iniquity to another, thus bringing on the destruction of the people.
Yea, he saw great inequality among the people, some lifting themselves up with their pride, despising others, turning their backs upon the aneedy and the naked and those who were bhungry, and those who were athirst, and those who were sick and afflicted.
Now this was a great cause for lamentations among the people, while others were abasing themselves, succoring those who stood in need of their succor, such as imparting their substance to the apoor and the needy, feeding the hungry, and suffering all manner of bafflictions, for Christ’s csake, who should come according to the spirit of prophecy; Looking forward to that day, thus aretaining a bremission of their sins; being filled with great cjoy because of the resurrection of the dead, according to the will and power and ddeliverance of Jesus Christ from the bands of death.
And now it came to pass that Alma, having seen the afflictions of the humble followers of God, and the persecutions which were heaped upon them by the remainder of his people, and seeing all their ainequality, began to be very sorrowful; nevertheless the Spirit of the Lord did not fail him.
And he selected a wise man who was among the aelders of the church, and gave him power according to the bvoice of the people, that he might have power to enact claws according to the laws which had been given, and to put them in force according to the wickedness and the crimes of the people.
Now this man’s name was aNephihah, and he was appointed bchief judge; and he sat in the judgment-seat to judge and to govern the people.
Now Alma did not grant unto him the office of being ahigh priest over the church, but he retained the office of high priest unto himself; but he delivered the judgment-seat unto bNephihah.
And this he did that he ahimself might go forth among his people, or among the people of Nephi, that he might bpreach the cword of God unto them, to dstir them up in eremembrance of their duty, and that he might pull down, by the word of God, all the pride and craftiness and all the contentions which were among his people, seeing no way that he might reclaim them save it were in bearing down in pure ftestimony against them.
And thus in the commencement of the ninth year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi, Alma delivered up the judgment-seat to aNephihah, and confined himself wholly to the bhigh priesthood of the holy order of God, to the ctestimony of the word, according to the spirit of revelation and prophecy.
 Now my son, here is somewhat more I would say unto thee; for I perceive that thy mind is worried concerning the resurrection of the dead.
Behold, I say unto you, that there is no resurrection—or, I would say, in other words, that this mortal does not put on aimmortality, this corruption does not bput on incorruption—cuntil after the coming of Christ.
Behold, he bringeth to pass the aresurrection of the dead.
But behold, my son, the resurrection is not yet.
Now, I unfold unto you a mystery; nevertheless, there are many bmysteries which are ckept, that no one knoweth them save God himself.
But I show unto you one thing which I have inquired diligently of God that I might know—that is concerning the resurrection.
Behold, there is a time appointed that all shall acome forth from the dead.
Now when this time cometh no one knows; but God knoweth the time which is appointed.
Now, whether there shall be one time, or a asecond time, or a third time, that men shall come forth from the dead, it mattereth not; for God bknoweth all these things; and it sufficeth me to know that this is the case—that there is a time appointed that all shall rise from the dead.
Now there must needs be a space betwixt the time of death and the time of the resurrection.
And now I would inquire what becometh of the asouls of men bfrom this time of death to the time appointed for the resurrection?
Now whether there is more than one atime appointed for men to rise it mattereth not; for all do not die at once, and this mattereth not; all is as one day with God, and time only is measured unto men.
Therefore, there is a time appointed unto men that they shall rise from the dead; and there is a space between the time of death and the resurrection.
And now, concerning this space of time, what becometh of the souls of men is the thing which I have inquired diligently of the Lord to know; and this is the thing of which I do know.
And when the time cometh when all shall rise, then shall they know that God aknoweth all the btimes which are appointed unto man.
Now, concerning the astate of the soul between bdeath and the resurrection—Behold, it has been made known unto me by an angel, that the spirits of all men, as soon as they are departed from this mortal body, yea, the spirits of all men, whether they be good or evil, are ctaken dhome to that God who gave them life.
And then shall it come to pass, that the spirits of those who are righteous are received into a state of ahappiness, which is called bparadise, a state of rest, a state of cpeace, where they shall rest from all their troubles and from all care, and sorrow.
And then shall it come to pass, that the aspirits of the wicked, yea, who are evil—for behold, they have no part nor portion of the Spirit of the Lord; for behold, they chose evil works rather than good; therefore the spirit of the bdevil did enter into them, and take possession of their house—and these shall be cast out into couter darkness; there shall be dweeping, and wailing, and gnashing of teeth, and this because of their own iniquity, being led captive by the will of the devil.
Now this is the state of the asouls of the bwicked, yea, in darkness, and a state of awful, cfearful looking for the fiery dindignation of the wrath of God upon them; thus they remain in this estate, as well as the righteous in paradise, until the time of their resurrection.
Now, there are some that have understood that this state of happiness and this state of misery of the soul, before the resurrection, was a first resurrection.
Yea, I admit it may be termed a resurrection, the araising of the spirit or the soul and their consignation to happiness or misery, according to the words which have been spoken.
And behold, again it hath been spoken, that there is a afirst bresurrection, a resurrection of all those who have been, or who are, or who shall be, down to the resurrection of Christ from the dead.
Now, we do not suppose that this first resurrection, which is spoken of in this manner, can be the resurrection of the souls and their aconsignation to happiness or misery.
Ye cannot suppose that this is what it meaneth.
Behold, I say unto you, Nay; but it meaneth the areuniting of the soul with the body, of those from the days of Adam down to the resurrection of Christ.
Now, whether the souls and the bodies of those of whom has been spoken shall all be reunited at once, the wicked as well as the righteous, I do not say; let it suffice, that I say that they all come forth; or in other words, their resurrection cometh to pass abefore the resurrection of those who die after the resurrection of Christ.
Now, my son, I do not say that their resurrection cometh at the resurrection of Christ; but behold, I give it as my opinion, that the souls and the bodies are reunited, of the righteous, at the resurrection of Christ, and his aascension into heaven.
But whether it be at his resurrection or after, I do not say; but this much I say, that there is a aspace between death and the resurrection of the body, and a state of the soul in bhappiness or in cmisery until the time which is appointed of God that the dead shall come forth, and be reunited, both soul and body, and be dbrought to stand before God, and be judged according to their works.
Yea, this bringeth about the restoration of those things of which has been spoken by the mouths of the prophets.
The asoul shall be brestored to the cbody, and the body to the soul; yea, and every limb and joint shall be restored to its body; yea, even a dhair of the head shall not be lost; but all things shall be restored to their proper and eperfect frame.
And now, my son, this is the restoration of which has been aspoken by the mouths of the prophets— And then shall the arighteous shine forth in the kingdom of God.
But behold, an awful adeath cometh upon the wicked; for they die as to things pertaining to things of righteousness; for they are unclean, and bno unclean thing can inherit the kingdom of God; but they are cast out, and consigned to partake of the fruits of their labors or their works, which have been evil; and they drink the dregs of a bitter ccup.
 And now, my son, I have somewhat to say concerning the restoration of which has been spoken; for behold, some have awrested the scriptures, and have gone far bastray because of this thing.
And I perceive that thy mind has been cworried also concerning this thing.
But behold, I will explain it unto thee.
I say unto thee, my son, that the plan of restoration is requisite with the justice of God; for it is requisite that all things should be restored to their proper order.
Behold, it is requisite and just, according to the power and resurrection of Christ, that the soul of man should be restored to its body, and that every apart of the body should be restored to itself.
And it is requisite with the ajustice of God that men should be bjudged according to their cworks; and if their works were good in this life, and the desires of their hearts were good, that they should also, at the last day, be drestored unto that which is good.
And if their works are evil they shall be arestored unto them for evil.
Therefore, all things shall be brestored to their proper order, every thing to its natural frame—cmortality raised to dimmortality, ecorruption to incorruption—raised to fendless happiness to ginherit the kingdom of God, or to endless misery to inherit the kingdom of the devil, the one on one hand, the other on the other— The one raised to ahappiness according to his desires of happiness, or good according to his desires of good; and the other to evil according to his desires of evil; for as he has desired to do evil all the day long even so shall he have his reward of evil when the night cometh.
And so it is on the other hand.
If he hath repented of his sins, and desired righteousness until the end of his days, even so he shall be rewarded unto righteousness.
aThese are they that are redeemed of the Lord; yea, these are they that are taken out, that are delivered from that endless night of darkness; and thus they stand or fall; for behold, they are their own bjudges, whether to do good or do evil.
Now, the decrees of God are aunalterable; therefore, the way is prepared that bwhosoever will may cwalk therein and be saved.
And now behold, my son, do not risk aone more offense against your God upon those points of doctrine, which ye have hitherto risked to commit sin.
Do not suppose, because it has been spoken concerning restoration, that ye shall be restored from sin to happiness.
Behold, I say unto you, awickedness never was bhappiness.
And now, my son, all men that are in a state of anature, or I would say, in a bcarnal state, are in the cgall of bitterness and in the dbonds of iniquity; they are ewithout God in the world, and they have gone fcontrary to the nature of God; therefore, they are in a state contrary to the nature of happiness.
And now behold, is the meaning of the word restoration to take a thing of a natural state and place it in an unnatural state, or to place it in a state opposite to its nature?
O, my son, this is not the case; but the meaning of the word restoration is to bring back again aevil for evil, or carnal for carnal, or devilish for devilish—good for that which is good; righteous for that which is righteous; just for that which is just; merciful for that which is merciful.
Therefore, my son, see that you are merciful unto your brethren; deal ajustly, bjudge righteously, and do cgood continually; and if ye do all these things then shall ye receive your dreward; yea, ye shall have emercy restored unto you again; ye shall have justice restored unto you again; ye shall have a righteous judgment restored unto you again; and ye shall have good rewarded unto you again.
For that which ye do asend out shall return unto you again, and be restored; therefore, the word restoration more fully condemneth the sinner, and justifieth him not at all.
 And now, my son, I perceive there is somewhat more which doth worry your mind, which ye cannot understand—which is concerning the ajustice of God in the bpunishment of the sinner; for ye do try to suppose that it is cinjustice that the sinner should be consigned to a state of misery.
Now behold, my son, I will explain this thing unto thee.
For behold, after the Lord God sent our first parents forth from the garden of aEden, to till the bground, from whence they were taken—yea, he drew out the man, and he placed at the east end of the garden of Eden, ccherubim, and a flaming sword which turned every way, to keep the tree of life— Now, we see that the man had become as God, knowing good and evil; and lest he should put forth his hand, and take also of the tree of life, and eat and live forever, the Lord God placed acherubim and the flaming sword, that he should not partake of the fruit— And thus we see, that there was a atime granted unto man to repent, yea, a bprobationary time, a time to repent and serve God.
For behold, if Adam had put forth his hand immediately, and apartaken of the btree of life, he would have lived forever, according to the word of God, having no space for repentance; yea, and also the word of God would have been void, and the great plan of salvation would have been frustrated.
But behold, it was appointed unto man to adie—therefore, as they were cut off from the tree of life they should be cut off from the face of the earth—and man became blost forever, yea, they became cfallen man.
And now, ye see by this that our first parents were acut off both temporally and spiritually from the bpresence of the Lord; and thus we see they became subjects to follow after their own cwill.
Now behold, it was not expedient that man should be reclaimed from this atemporal death, for that would destroy the great bplan of happiness.
Therefore, as the soul could never die, and the afall had brought upon all mankind a spiritual bdeath as well as a temporal, that is, they were cut off from the presence of the Lord, it was expedient that mankind should be reclaimed from this spiritual death.
Therefore, as they had become acarnal, sensual, and devilish, by bnature, this cprobationary state became a state for them to prepare; it became a preparatory state.
And now remember, my son, if it were not for the plan of redemption, (laying it aside) as soon as they were dead their souls were amiserable, being cut off from the presence of the Lord.
And now, there was no means to reclaim men from this fallen state, which aman had brought upon himself because of his own bdisobedience; Therefore, according to justice, the aplan of bredemption could not be brought about, only on conditions of repentance of men in this probationary state, yea, this preparatory state; for except it were for these conditions, mercy could not take effect except it should destroy the work of justice.
Now the work of justice could not be destroyed; if so, God would ccease to be God.
And thus we see that all mankind were afallen, and they were in the grasp of bjustice; yea, the justice of God, which consigned them forever to be cut off from his presence.
And now, the plan of mercy could not be brought about except an atonement should be made; therefore God himself aatoneth for the sins of the world, to bring about the plan of bmercy, to appease the demands of cjustice, that God might be a dperfect, just God, and a emerciful God also.
Now, repentance could not come unto men except there were a apunishment, which also was beternal as the life of the soul should be, affixed copposite to the plan of happiness, which was as deternal also as the life of the soul.
Now, how could a man repent except he should asin?
How could he sin if there was no blaw?
How could there be a law save there was a punishment?
Now, there was a punishment affixed, and a just law given, which brought remorse of aconscience unto man.
Now, if there was no law given—if a man amurdered he should bdie—would he be afraid he would die if he should murder?
And also, if there was no law given against sin men would not be afraid to sin.
And if there was ano law given, if men sinned what could justice do, or mercy either, for they would have no claim upon the creature?
But there is a law given, and a apunishment affixed, and a brepentance granted; which repentance, mercy claimeth; otherwise, justice claimeth the creature and executeth the claw, and the law inflicteth the punishment; if not so, the works of justice would be destroyed, and God would cease to be God.
But God ceaseth not to be God, and amercy claimeth the penitent, and mercy cometh because of the batonement; and the atonement bringeth to pass the cresurrection of the dead; and the dresurrection of the dead bringeth eback men into the presence of God; and thus they are restored into his presence, to be fjudged according to their works, according to the law and justice.
For behold, justice exerciseth all his demands, and also amercy claimeth all which is her own; and thus, none but the truly penitent are saved.
What, do ye suppose that amercy can rob bjustice?
I say unto you, Nay; not one whit.
If so, God would cease to be God.
And thus God bringeth about his great and eternal apurposes, which were prepared bfrom the foundation of the world.
And thus cometh about the salvation and the redemption of men, and also their destruction and misery.
Therefore, O my son, awhosoever will come may come and partake of the waters of life freely; and whosoever will not come the same is not compelled to come; but in the last day it shall be brestored unto him according to his cdeeds.
If he has desired to do aevil, and has not repented in his days, behold, evil shall be done unto him, according to the restoration of God.
And now, my son, I desire that ye should let these things atrouble you no more, and only let your sins trouble you, with that trouble which shall bring you down unto repentance.
O my son, I desire that ye should deny the ajustice of God no more.
Do not endeavor to excuse yourself in the least point because of your sins, by denying the justice of God; but do you let the justice of God, and his bmercy, and his long-suffering have full sway in your heart; and let it bring you down to the dust in chumility.
And now, O my son, ye are called of God to apreach the word unto this people.
And now, my son, go thy way, declare the word with truth and soberness, that thou mayest bbring souls unto repentance, that the great plan of mercy may have claim upon them.
And may God grant unto you even according to my words.
Amen.
 And now it came to pass that the sons of Alma did go forth among the people, to declare the word unto them.
And Alma, also, himself, could not arest, and he also went forth.
Now awe shall say no more concerning their preaching, except that they preached the word, and the truth, according to the spirit of prophecy and revelation; and they preached after the bholy order of God by which they were called.
And now aI return to an baccount of the wars between the Nephites and the Lamanites, in the eighteenth year of the reign of the judges.
For behold, it came to pass that the aZoramites became Lamanites; therefore, in the commencement of the eighteenth year the people of the Nephites saw that the Lamanites were coming upon them; therefore they made preparations for war; yea, they gathered together their armies in the land of Jershon.
And it came to pass that the Lamanites came with their thousands; and they came into the land of aAntionum, which is the land of the Zoramites; and a man by the name of bZerahemnah was their leader.
And now, as the aAmalekites were of a more wicked and murderous disposition than the Lamanites were, in and of themselves, therefore, Zerahemnah appointed chief bcaptains over the Lamanites, and they were all Amalekites and cZoramites.
Now this he did that he might preserve their ahatred towards the Nephites, that he might bring them into subjection to the accomplishment of his designs.
For behold, his adesigns were to bstir up the Lamanites to anger against the Nephites; this he did that he might usurp great power over them, and also that he might gain power over the Nephites by bringing them into cbondage.
And now the design of the Nephites was to support their lands, and their houses, and their awives, and their children, that they might preserve them from the hands of their enemies; and also that they might preserve their brights and their privileges, yea, and also their cliberty, that they might worship God according to their desires.
For they knew that if they should fall into the hands of the Lamanites, that whosoever should aworship God in bspirit and in truth, the true and the living God, the Lamanites would cdestroy.
Yea, and they also knew the extreme hatred of the Lamanites towards their abrethren, who were the bpeople of Anti-Nephi-Lehi, who were called the people of Ammon—and they would not take up arms, yea, they had entered into a covenant and they would not break it—therefore, if they should fall into the hands of the Lamanites they would be destroyed.
And the Nephites would not suffer that they should be destroyed; therefore they gave them lands for their inheritance.
And the people of Ammon did give unto the Nephites a large portion of their substance to asupport their armies; and thus the Nephites were compelled, alone, to withstand against the Lamanites, who were a compound of Laman and Lemuel, and the sons of Ishmael, and all those who had dissented from the Nephites, who were Amalekites and Zoramites, and the bdescendants of the priests of Noah.
Now those descendants were as numerous, nearly, as were the Nephites; and thus the Nephites were obliged to contend with their brethren, even unto bloodshed.
And it came to pass as the armies of the Lamanites had gathered together in the land of Antionum, behold, the armies of the Nephites were prepared to meet them in the aland of Jershon.
Now, the leader of the Nephites, or the man who had been aappointed to be the bchief captain over the Nephites—now the chief captain took the command of all the armies of the Nephites—and his name was Moroni; And Moroni took all the command, and the government of their wars.
And he was only twenty and five years old when he was appointed chief captain over the armies of the Nephites.
And it came to pass that he met the Lamanites in the borders of Jershon, and his people were armed with swords, and with cimeters, and all manner of aweapons of war.
And when the armies of the Lamanites saw that the people of Nephi, or that Moroni, had aprepared his people with bbreastplates and with arm-shields, yea, and also shields to defend their heads, and also they were dressed with thick clothing— Now the army of Zerahemnah was not prepared with any such thing; they had only their aswords and their cimeters, their bows and their arrows, their bstones and their slings; and they were cnaked, save it were a skin which was girded about their loins; yea, all were naked, save it were the Zoramites and the Amalekites; But they were not armed with breastplates, nor shields—therefore, they were exceedingly afraid of the armies of the Nephites because of their armor, notwithstanding their number being so much greater than the Nephites.
Behold, now it came to pass that they durst not come against the Nephites in the borders of Jershon; therefore they departed out of the land of Antionum into the wilderness, and took their journey round about in the wilderness, away by the head of the river Sidon, that they might come into the land of aManti and take possession of the land; for they did not suppose that the armies of Moroni would know whither they had gone.
But it came to pass, as soon as they had departed into the wilderness Moroni sent spies into the wilderness to watch their camp; and Moroni, also, knowing of the prophecies of Alma, sent certain men unto him, desiring him that he should ainquire of the Lord bwhither the armies of the Nephites should go to defend themselves against the Lamanites.
And it came to pass that the aword of the Lord came unto Alma, and Alma informed the messengers of Moroni, that the armies of the Lamanites were marching round about in the wilderness, that they might come over into the land of Manti, that they might commence an attack upon the weaker part of the people.
And those messengers went and delivered the message unto Moroni.
Now Moroni, leaving a part of his army in the land of Jershon, lest by any means a part of the Lamanites should come into that land and take possession of the city, took the remaining part of his army and marched over into the land of Manti.
And he caused that all the people in that quarter of the land should gather themselves together to battle against the Lamanites, to defend their lands and their country, their rights and their liberties; therefore they were prepared against the time of the coming of the Lamanites.
And it came to pass that Moroni caused that his army should be secreted in the valley which was near the bank of the river Sidon, which was on the west of the river Sidon in the wilderness.
And Moroni placed spies round about, that he might know when the camp of the Lamanites should come.
And now, as Moroni knew the aintention of the Lamanites, that it was their intention to destroy their brethren, or to bsubject them and bring them into bondage that they might establish a kingdom unto themselves over all the land; And he also knowing that it was the aonly desire of the Nephites to preserve their lands, and their bliberty, and their church, therefore he thought it no sin that he should defend them by cstratagem; therefore, he found by his spies which course the Lamanites were to take.
Therefore, he divided his army and brought a part over into the valley, and aconcealed them on the east, and on the south of the hill Riplah; And the remainder he concealed in the west avalley, on the west of the river Sidon, and so down into the borders of the land Manti.
And thus having placed his army according to his desire, he was prepared to meet them.
And it came to pass that the Lamanites came up on the north of the hill, where a part of the army of Moroni was concealed.
And as the Lamanites had passed the hill Riplah, and came into the valley, and began to cross the river Sidon, the army which was concealed on the south of the hill, which was led by a man whose name was aLehi, and he led his army forth and encircled the Lamanites about on the east in their rear.
And it came to pass that the Lamanites, when they saw the Nephites coming upon them in their rear, turned them about and began to contend with the army of Lehi.
And the work of death commenced on both sides, but it was more dreadful on the part of the Lamanites, for their anakedness was exposed to the heavy blows of the Nephites with their swords and their cimeters, which brought death almost at every stroke.
While on the other hand, there was now and then a man fell among the Nephites, by their swords and the loss of blood, they being shielded from the more vital parts of the body, or the more vital parts of the body being shielded from the strokes of the Lamanites, by their abreastplates, and their armshields, and their head-plates; and thus the Nephites did carry on the work of death among the Lamanites.
And it came to pass that the Lamanites became frightened, because of the great destruction among them, even until they began to flee towards the river Sidon.
And they were pursued by Lehi and his men; and they were driven by Lehi into the waters of Sidon, and they crossed the waters of Sidon.
And Lehi retained his armies upon the bank of the river Sidon that they should not cross.
And it came to pass that Moroni and his army met the Lamanites in the avalley, on the other side of the river Sidon, and began to fall upon them and to slay them.
And the Lamanites did flee again before them, towards the land of Manti; and they were met again by the armies of Moroni.
Now in this case the Lamanites did fight exceedingly; yea, never had the Lamanites been known to fight with such exceedingly great strength and courage, no, not even from the beginning.
And they were inspired by the aZoramites and the Amalekites, who were their chief captains and leaders, and by Zerahemnah, who was their chief captain, or their chief leader and commander; yea, they did fight like dragons, and many of the Nephites were slain by their hands, yea, for they did smite in two many of their head-plates, and they did pierce many of their breastplates, and they did smite off many of their arms; and thus the Lamanites did smite in their fierce anger.
Nevertheless, the Nephites were inspired by a abetter cause, for they were not bfighting for monarchy nor power but they were fighting for their homes and their cliberties, their wives and their children, and their all, yea, for their rites of worship and their church.
And they were doing that which they felt was the aduty which they owed to their God; for the Lord had said unto them, and also unto their fathers, that: bInasmuch as ye are not guilty of the cfirst offense, neither the second, ye shall not suffer yourselves to be slain by the hands of your enemies.
And again, the Lord has said that: Ye shall adefend your families even unto bbloodshed.
Therefore for this cause were the Nephites contending with the Lamanites, to defend themselves, and their families, and their lands, their country, and their rights, and their religion.
And it came to pass that when the men of Moroni saw the fierceness and the anger of the Lamanites, they were about to shrink and flee from them.
And Moroni, perceiving their intent, sent forth and inspired their hearts with these thoughts—yea, the thoughts of their lands, their liberty, yea, their freedom from bondage.
And it came to pass that they turned upon the Lamanites, and they acried with one voice bunto the Lord their God, for their cliberty and their freedom from bondage.
And they abegan to stand against the Lamanites with power; and in that selfsame hour that they cried unto the Lord for their freedom, the Lamanites began to flee before them; and they fled even to the waters of Sidon.
Now, the Lamanites were more anumerous, yea, by more than double the number of the Nephites; nevertheless, they were driven insomuch that they were gathered together in one body in the valley, upon the bank by the river Sidon.
Therefore the armies of Moroni encircled them about, yea, even on both sides of the river, for behold, on the east were the men of Lehi.
Therefore when Zerahemnah saw the men of Lehi on the east of the river Sidon, and the armies of Moroni on the west of the river Sidon, that they were encircled about by the Nephites, they were struck with terror.
Now Moroni, when he saw their aterror, commanded his men that they should stop shedding their blood.
 And it came to pass that they did stop and withdrew a pace from them.
And Moroni said unto aZerahemnah: Behold, Zerahemnah, that we do bnot desire to be men of blood.
Ye know that ye are in our hands, yet we do not desire to slay you.
Behold, we have not come out to battle against you that we might shed your blood for power; neither do we desire to bring any one to the ayoke of bondage.
But this is the bvery cause for which ye have come against us; yea, and ye are angry with us because of our religion.
But now, ye behold that the Lord is with us; and ye behold that he has delivered you into our hands.
And now I would that ye should understand that this is done unto us abecause of our religion and our faith in Christ.
And now ye see that ye cannot destroy this our faith.
Now ye see that this is the true faith of God; yea, ye see that God will support, and keep, and preserve us, so long as we are afaithful unto him, and unto our faith, and our religion; and never will the Lord suffer that we shall be destroyed except we should fall into transgression and deny our faith.
And now, Zerahemnah, I command you, in the name of that all-powerful God, who has strengthened our arms that we have gained power over you, aby our faith, by our religion, and by our brites of worship, and by our church, and by the sacred support which we owe to our cwives and our children, by that dliberty which binds us to our lands and our country; yea, and also by the maintenance of the sacred word of God, to which we owe all our happiness; and by all that is most dear unto us— Yea, and this is not all; I command you by all the desires which ye have for life, that ye adeliver up your weapons of war unto us, and we will seek not your blood, but we will bspare your lives, if ye will go your way and come not again to war against us.
And now, if ye do not this, behold, ye are in our hands, and I will command my men that they shall fall upon you, and ainflict the wounds of death in your bodies, that ye may become extinct; and then we will see who shall have power over this people; yea, we will see who shall be brought into bondage.
And now it came to pass that when Zerahemnah had heard these sayings he came forth and delivered up his asword and his cimeter, and his bow into the hands of Moroni, and said unto him: Behold, here are our weapons of war; we will deliver them up unto you, but we will not suffer ourselves to take an boath unto you, which we know that we shall break, and also our children; but take our weapons of war, and suffer that we may depart into the wilderness; otherwise we will retain our swords, and we will perish or conquer.
Behold, we are anot of your faith; we do not believe that it is God that has delivered us into your hands; but we believe that it is your cunning that has preserved you from our swords.
Behold, it is your bbreastplates and your shields that have preserved you.
And now when Zerahemnah had made an end of speaking these words, Moroni returned the sword and the weapons of war, which he had received, unto Zerahemnah, saying: Behold, we will end the conflict.
Now I cannot recall the words which I have spoken, therefore as the Lord liveth, ye shall not depart except ye depart with an oath that ye will not return again against us to war.
Now as ye are in our hands we will spill your blood upon the ground, or ye shall submit to the conditions which I have proposed.
And now when Moroni had said these words, Zerahemnah retained his sword, and he was angry with Moroni, and he rushed forward that he might slay Moroni; but as he raised his sword, behold, one of Moroni’s soldiers smote it even to the earth, and it broke by the hilt; and he also smote Zerahemnah that he took off his scalp and it fell to the earth.
And Zerahemnah withdrew from before them into the midst of his soldiers.
And it came to pass that the soldier who stood by, who smote off the scalp of Zerahemnah, took up the scalp from off the ground by the hair, and laid it upon the point of his sword, and stretched it forth unto them, saying unto them with a loud voice: Even as this scalp has fallen to the earth, which is the scalp of your chief, so shall ye fall to the earth except ye will deliver up your weapons of war and depart with a covenant of peace.
Now there were many, when they heard these words and saw the scalp which was upon the sword, that were struck with fear; and many came forth and threw down their weapons of war at the feet of Moroni, and entered into a acovenant of peace.
And as many as entered into a covenant they suffered to bdepart into the wilderness.
Now it came to pass that Zerahemnah was exceedingly wroth, and he did stir up the remainder of his soldiers to anger, to contend more powerfully against the Nephites.
And now Moroni was angry, because of the stubbornness of the Lamanites; therefore he commanded his people that they should fall upon them and slay them.
And it came to pass that they began to slay them; yea, and the Lamanites did contend with their swords and their might.
But behold, their naked skins and their bare heads were exposed to the sharp swords of the Nephites; yea, behold they were pierced and smitten, yea, and did fall exceedingly fast before the swords of the Nephites; and they began to be swept down, even as the soldier of Moroni had prophesied.
Now Zerahemnah, when he saw that they were all about to be destroyed, cried mightily unto Moroni, promising that he would covenant and also his people with them, if they would spare the remainder of their lives, that they anever would come to war again against them.
And it came to pass that Moroni caused that the work of death should acease again among the people.
And he took the weapons of war from the Lamanites; and after they had entered into a bcovenant with him of peace they were suffered to depart into the wilderness.
Now the number of their dead was not numbered because of the greatness of the number; yea, the number of their dead was exceedingly great, both on the Nephites and on the Lamanites.
And it came to pass that they did cast their dead into the waters of Sidon, and they have gone forth and are buried in the depths of the asea.
And the armies of the Nephites, or of Moroni, returned and came to their houses and their lands.
And thus ended the eighteenth year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi.
And thus ended the record of Alma, which was written upon the plates of Nephi.
 And it came to pass that as many as would not hearken to the awords of Helaman and his brethren were gathered together against their brethren.
And now behold, they were exceedingly wroth, insomuch that they were determined to slay them.
Now the leader of those who were wroth against their brethren was a large and a strong man; and his name was aAmalickiah.
And Amalickiah was desirous to be a aking; and those people who were wroth were also desirous that he should be their king; and they were the greater part of them the lower bjudges of the land, and they were seeking for power.
And they had been led by the aflatteries of Amalickiah, that if they would support him and establish him to be their king that he would make them rulers over the people.
Thus they were led away by Amalickiah to dissensions, notwithstanding the preaching of Helaman and his brethren, yea, notwithstanding their exceedingly great care over the church, for they were ahigh priests over the church.
And there were many in the church who believed in the aflattering words of Amalickiah, therefore they bdissented even from the church; and thus were the affairs of the people of Nephi exceedingly precarious and dangerous, notwithstanding their great cvictory which they had had over the Lamanites, and their great rejoicings which they had had because of their ddeliverance by the hand of the Lord.
Thus we see how aquick the children of men do bforget the Lord their God, yea, how quick to do ciniquity, and to be led away by the evil one.
Yea, and we also see the great awickedness one very wicked man can cause to take place among the children of men.
Yea, we see that Amalickiah, because he was a man of cunning device and a man of many flattering words, that he led away the hearts of many people to do wickedly; yea, and to seek to adestroy the church of God, and to destroy the foundation of bliberty which God had granted unto them, or which blessing God had sent upon the face of the land for the crighteous’ sake.
And now it came to pass that when Moroni, who was the achief commander of the armies of the Nephites, had heard of these dissensions, he was angry with Amalickiah.
And it came to pass that he rent his coat; and he took a piece thereof, and wrote upon it—aIn memory of our God, our religion, and freedom, and our peace, our wives, and our children—and he fastened it upon the end of a pole.
And he fastened on his head-plate, and his abreastplate, and his shields, and girded on his armor about his loins; and he took the pole, which had on the end thereof his rent coat, (and he called it the btitle of liberty) and he cbowed himself to the earth, and he prayed mightily unto his God for the blessings of liberty to rest upon his brethren, so long as there should a band of dChristians remain to possess the land— For thus were all the true believers of Christ, who belonged to the church of God, called by those who did not belong to the church.
And those who did belong to the church were afaithful; yea, all those who were true believers in Christ btook upon them, gladly, the name of Christ, or cChristians as they were called, because of their belief in Christ who should come.
And therefore, at this time, Moroni prayed that the cause of the Christians, and the afreedom of the land might be favored.
And it came to pass that when he had poured out his soul to God, he named all the land which was asouth of the land bDesolation, yea, and in fine, all the land, both on the cnorth and on the south—A chosen land, and the land of dliberty.
And he said: Surely God shall not asuffer that we, who are despised because we take upon us the name of Christ, shall be trodden down and destroyed, until we bring it upon us by our own btransgressions.
And when Moroni had said these words, he went forth among the people, waving the arent part of his garment in the air, that all might see the writing which he had written upon the rent part, and crying with a loud voice, saying: Behold, whosoever will maintain this title upon the land, let them come forth in the strength of the Lord, and aenter into a covenant that they will bmaintain their rights, and their religion, that the Lord God may bless them.
And it came to pass that when Moroni had proclaimed these words, behold, the people came running atogether with their armor girded about their loins, brending their garments in token, or as a ccovenant, that they would not forsake the Lord their God; or, in other words, if they should transgress the commandments of God, or fall into transgression, and be dashamed to take upon them the name of Christ, the Lord should rend them even as they had rent their garments.
Now this was the covenant which they made, and they acast their garments at the feet of Moroni, saying: We bcovenant with our God, that we shall be destroyed, even as our brethren in the land northward, if we shall fall into transgression; yea, he may cast us at the feet of our enemies, even as we have cast our garments at thy feet to be trodden under foot, if we shall fall into transgression.
Moroni said unto them: Behold, we are a aremnant of the seed of Jacob; yea, we are a remnant of the seed of bJoseph, whose ccoat was rent by his brethren into many pieces; yea, and now behold, let us remember to keep the commandments of God, or our garments shall be rent by our brethren, and we be cast into prison, or be sold, or be slain.
Yea, let us preserve our liberty as a aremnant of Joseph; yea, let us remember the words of Jacob, before his death, for behold, he saw that a bpart of the cremnant of the coat of Joseph was dpreserved and had not decayed.
And he said—Even as this remnant of garment of my son hath been preserved, so shall a eremnant of the seed of my son be preserved by the hand of God, and be taken unto himself, while the remainder of the seed of Joseph shall perish, even as the remnant of his garment.
Now behold, this giveth my soul sorrow; nevertheless, my soul hath joy in my son, because of that part of his seed which shall be taken unto God.
Now behold, this was the language of Jacob.
And now who knoweth but what the remnant of the seed of Joseph, which shall perish as his garment, are those who have dissented from us?
Yea, and even it shall be ourselves if we do not stand fast in the faith of Christ.
And now it came to pass that when Moroni had said these words he went forth, and also sent forth in all the parts of the land where there were dissensions, and gathered together all the people who were desirous to maintain their liberty, to stand against Amalickiah and those who had dissented, who were called Amalickiahites.
And it came to pass that when Amalickiah saw that the people of Moroni were more numerous than the Amalickiahites—and he also saw that his people were adoubtful concerning the justice of the cause in which they had undertaken—therefore, fearing that he should not gain the point, he took those of his people who would and departed into the bland of Nephi.
Now Moroni thought it was not expedient that the Lamanites should have any more astrength; therefore he thought to cut off the people of Amalickiah, or to take them and bring them back, and put Amalickiah to death; yea, for he knew that he would stir up the Lamanites to anger against them, and cause them to come to battle against them; and this he knew that Amalickiah would do that he might obtain his purposes.
Therefore Moroni thought it was expedient that he should take his armies, who had gathered themselves together, and armed themselves, and entered into a covenant to keep the peace—and it came to pass that he took his army and marched out with his tents into the wilderness, to cut off the course of Amalickiah in the wilderness.
And it came to pass that he did according to his desires, and marched forth into the wilderness, and headed the armies of Amalickiah.
And it came to pass that Amalickiah afled with a small number of his men, and the remainder were delivered up into the hands of Moroni and were taken back into the land of Zarahemla.
Now, Moroni being a man who was aappointed by the chief judges and the voice of the people, therefore he had power according to his will with the armies of the Nephites, to establish and to exercise authority over them.
And it came to pass that whomsoever of the Amalickiahites that would not enter into a covenant to support the acause of freedom, that they might maintain a free bgovernment, he caused to be put to death; and there were but few who denied the covenant of freedom.
And it came to pass also, that he caused the atitle of liberty to be hoisted upon every tower which was in all the land, which was possessed by the Nephites; and thus Moroni planted the standard of liberty among the Nephites.
And they began to have peace again in the land; and thus they did maintain peace in the land until nearly the end of the nineteenth year of the reign of the judges.
And Helaman and the ahigh priests did also maintain order in the church; yea, even for the space of four years did they have much peace and rejoicing in the church.
And it came to pass that there were many who died, firmly abelieving that their souls were redeemed by the Lord Jesus Christ; thus they went out of the world rejoicing.
And there were some who died with fevers, which at some seasons of the year were very frequent in the land—but not so much so with fevers, because of the excellent qualities of the many aplants and roots which God had prepared to remove the cause of bdiseases, to which men were subject by the nature of the climate— But there were many who died with aold age; and those who died in the faith of Christ are bhappy in him, as we must needs suppose.
 Now we will return in our record to Amalickiah and those who had afled with him into the wilderness; for, behold, he had taken those who went with him, and went up in the bland of Nephi among the Lamanites, and did cstir up the Lamanites to anger against the people of Nephi, insomuch that the king of the Lamanites sent a proclamation throughout all his land, among all his people, that they should gather themselves together again to go to battle against the Nephites.
And it came to pass that when the proclamation had gone forth among them they were exceedingly afraid; yea, they afeared to displease the king, and they also feared to go to battle against the Nephites lest they should lose their lives.
And it came to pass that they would not, or the more part of them would not, obey the commandments of the king.
And now it came to pass that the king was wroth because of their disobedience; therefore he gave Amalickiah the command of that part of his army which was obedient unto his commands, and commanded him that he should go forth and acompel them to arms.
Now behold, this was the desire of Amalickiah; for he being a very asubtle man to do evil therefore he laid the plan in his heart to bdethrone the king of the Lamanites.
And now he had got the command of those parts of the Lamanites who were in favor of the king; and he sought to gain favor of those who were not obedient; therefore he went forward to the place which was called aOnidah, for thither had all the Lamanites fled; for they discovered the army coming, and, supposing that they were coming to destroy them, therefore they fled to Onidah, to the place of arms.
And they had appointed a man to be a king and a leader over them, being fixed in their minds with a determined resolution that they would anot be subjected to go against the Nephites.
And it came to pass that they had gathered themselves together upon the top of the mount which was called Antipas, in preparation to battle.
Now it was not Amalickiah’s intention to give them battle according to the commandments of the king; but behold, it was his intention to gain favor with the armies of the Lamanites, that he might place himself at their head and dethrone the king and take possession of the kingdom.
And behold, it came to pass that he caused his army to pitch their tents in the valley which was near the mount Antipas.
And it came to pass that when it was night he sent a secret embassy into the mount Antipas, desiring that the leader of those who were upon the mount, whose name was Lehonti, that he should come down to the foot of the mount, for he desired to speak with him.
And it came to pass that when Lehonti received the message he durst not go down to the foot of the mount.
And it came to pass that Amalickiah sent again the second time, desiring him to come down.
And it came to pass that Lehonti would not; and he sent again the third time.
And it came to pass that when Amalickiah found that he could not get Lehonti to come down off from the mount, he went up into the mount, nearly to Lehonti’s camp; and he sent again the fourth time his message unto Lehonti, desiring that he would come down, and that he would bring his guards with him.
And it came to pass that when Lehonti had come down with his guards to Amalickiah, that Amalickiah desired him to come down with his army in the night-time, and surround those men in their camps over whom the king had given him command, and that he would deliver them up into Lehonti’s hands, if he would make him (Amalickiah) a second aleader over the whole army.
And it came to pass that Lehonti came down with his men and surrounded the men of Amalickiah, so that before they awoke at the dawn of day they were surrounded by the armies of Lehonti.
And it came to pass that when they saw that they were surrounded, they pled with Amalickiah that he would suffer them to fall in with their brethren, that they might not be destroyed.
Now this was the very thing which Amalickiah desired.
And it came to pass that he delivered his men, acontrary to the commands of the king.
Now this was the thing that Amalickiah desired, that he might accomplish his designs in dethroning the king.
Now it was the custom among the Lamanites, if their chief leader was killed, to appoint the second leader to be their chief leader.
And it came to pass that Amalickiah caused that one of his servants should administer apoison by degrees to Lehonti, that he died.
Now, when Lehonti was dead, the Lamanites appointed Amalickiah to be their leader and their chief commander.
And it came to pass that Amalickiah marched with his armies (for he had gained his desires) to the aland of Nephi, to the city of Nephi, which was the chief city.
And the king came out to meet him with his guards, for he supposed that Amalickiah had afulfilled his commands, and that Amalickiah had gathered together so great an army to go against the Nephites to battle.
But behold, as the king came out to meet him Amalickiah caused that his servants should go forth to meet the king.
And they went and abowed themselves before the king, as if to reverence him because of his greatness.
And it came to pass that the king put forth his hand to raise them, as was the custom with the Lamanites, as a token of peace, which custom they had taken from the Nephites.
And it came to pass that when he had raised the first from the ground, behold he stabbed the king to the heart; and he fell to the earth.
Now the servants of the king fled; and the servants of Amalickiah raised a cry, saying: Behold, the servants of the king have stabbed him to the heart, and he has fallen and they have fled; behold, come and see.
And it came to pass that Amalickiah commanded that his armies should march forth and see what had happened to the king; and when they had come to the spot, and found the king lying in his gore, Amalickiah pretended to be wroth, and said: Whosoever loved the king, let him go forth, and pursue his servants that they may be slain.
And it came to pass that all they who loved the king, when they heard these words, came forth and pursued after the servants of the king.
Now when the aservants of the king saw an army pursuing after them, they were frightened again, and fled into the wilderness, and came over into the land of Zarahemla and joined the bpeople of Ammon.
And the army which pursued after them returned, having pursued after them in vain; and thus Amalickiah, by his afraud, gained the hearts of the people.
And it came to pass on the morrow he entered the city Nephi with his armies, and took possession of the city.
And now it came to pass that the queen, when she had heard that the king was slain—for Amalickiah had sent an embassy to the queen informing her that the king had been slain by his servants, that he had pursued them with his army, but it was in vain, and they had made their escape— Therefore, when the queen had received this message she sent unto Amalickiah, desiring him that he would spare the people of the city; and she also desired him that he should come in unto her; and she also desired him that he should bring awitnesses with him to testify concerning the death of the king.
And it came to pass that Amalickiah took the same servant that slew the king, and all them who were with him, and went in unto the queen, unto the place where she sat; and they all atestified unto her that the king was slain by his own servants; and they said also: They have fled; does not this testify against them?
And thus they satisfied the queen concerning the death of the king.
And it came to pass that Amalickiah sought the afavor of the queen, and took her unto him to wife; and thus by his bfraud, and by the assistance of his cunning servants, he cobtained the kingdom; yea, he was acknowledged king throughout all the land, among all the people of the Lamanites, who were dcomposed of the Lamanites and the Lemuelites and the Ishmaelites, and all the dissenters of the Nephites, from the reign of Nephi down to the present time.
Now these adissenters, having the same instruction and the same information of the Nephites, yea, having been instructed in the same bknowledge of the Lord, nevertheless, it is strange to relate, not long after their dissensions they became more hardened and cimpenitent, and more wild, wicked and ferocious than the Lamanites—drinking in with the dtraditions of the Lamanites; giving way to eindolence, and all manner of lasciviousness; yea, entirely forgetting the Lord their God.
 And now it came to pass that, as soon as aAmalickiah had obtained the kingdom he began to binspire the hearts of the Lamanites against the people of Nephi; yea, he did appoint men to speak unto the Lamanites from their ctowers, against the Nephites.
And thus he did inspire their hearts against the Nephites, insomuch that in the latter end of the anineteenth year of the reign of the judges, he having accomplished his designs thus far, yea, having been made king over the Lamanites, he bsought also to creign over all the land, yea, and all the people who were in the land, the Nephites as well as the Lamanites.
Therefore he had accomplished his design, for he had hardened the hearts of the Lamanites and blinded their minds, and stirred them up to anger, insomuch that he had gathered together a numerous host to go to battle against the Nephites.
For he was determined, because of the greatness of the number of his people, to aoverpower the Nephites and to bring them into bondage.
And thus he did appoint achief captains of the bZoramites, they being the most acquainted with the strength of the Nephites, and their places of resort, and the weakest parts of their cities; therefore he appointed them to be chief captains over his armies.
And it came to pass that they took their camp, and moved forth toward the land of Zarahemla in the wilderness.
Now it came to pass that while Amalickiah had thus been obtaining power by fraud and deceit, Moroni, on the other hand, had been apreparing the minds of the people to be faithful unto the Lord their God.
Yea, he had been strengthening the armies of the Nephites, and erecting small aforts, or places of resort; throwing up banks of earth round about to enclose his armies, and also building bwalls of stone to encircle them about, round about their cities and the borders of their lands; yea, all round about the land.
And in their weakest fortifications he did place the greater number of men; and thus he did fortify and strengthen the land which was possessed by the Nephites.
And thus he was preparing to asupport their liberty, their lands, their wives, and their children, and their peace, and that they might live unto the Lord their God, and that they might maintain that which was called by their enemies the cause of bChristians.
And Moroni was a astrong and a mighty man; he was a man of a perfect bunderstanding; yea, a man that did not delight in bloodshed; a man whose soul did joy in the liberty and the freedom of his country, and his brethren from bondage and slavery; Yea, a man whose heart did swell with thanksgiving to his God, for the many privileges and blessings which he bestowed upon his people; a man who did labor exceedingly for the awelfare and safety of his people.
Yea, and he was a man who was firm in the faith of Christ, and he had asworn with an oath to defend his people, his rights, and his country, and his religion, even to the loss of his blood.
Now the Nephites were taught to defend themselves against their enemies, even to the shedding of blood if it were necessary; yea, and they were also taught anever to give an offense, yea, and never to raise the sword except it were against an enemy, except it were to preserve their lives.
And this was their afaith, that by so doing God would bprosper them in the land, or in other words, if they were faithful in keeping the commandments of God that he would prosper them in the land; yea, warn them to flee, or to prepare for war, according to their danger; And also, that God would make it known unto them awhither they should go to defend themselves against their enemies, and by so doing, the Lord would deliver them; and this was the faith of Moroni, and his heart did glory in it; bnot in the shedding of blood but in doing good, in preserving his people, yea, in keeping the commandments of God, yea, and resisting iniquity.
Yea, verily, verily I say unto you, if all men had been, and were, and ever would be, like unto aMoroni, behold, the very powers of hell would have been shaken forever; yea, the bdevil would never have power over the hearts of the children of men.
Behold, he was a man like unto aAmmon, the son of Mosiah, yea, and even the other sons of Mosiah, yea, and also Alma and his sons, for they were all men of God.
Now behold, Helaman and his brethren were no less aserviceable unto the people than was Moroni; for they did preach the word of God, and they did baptize unto repentance all men whosoever would hearken unto their words.
And thus they went forth, and the people did ahumble themselves because of their bwords, insomuch that they were highly cfavored of the Lord, and thus they were free from wars and contentions among themselves, yea, even for the space of four years.
But, as I have said, in the alatter end of the nineteenth year, yea, notwithstanding their peace amongst themselves, they were compelled reluctantly to contend with their brethren, the Lamanites.
Yea, and in fine, their wars never did cease for the space of many years with the Lamanites, notwithstanding their much reluctance.
Now, they were asorry to take up arms against the Lamanites, because they did not delight in the shedding of blood; yea, and this was not all—they were bsorry to be the means of sending so many of their brethren out of this world into an eternal world, cunprepared to meet their God.
Nevertheless, they could not suffer to lay down their lives, that their awives and their children should be bmassacred by the barbarous ccruelty of those who were once their brethren, yea, and had ddissented from their church, and had left them and had gone to destroy them by joining the Lamanites.
Yea, they could not bear that their brethren should rejoice over the blood of the Nephites, so long as there were any who should keep the commandments of God, for the promise of the Lord was, if they should keep his commandments they should aprosper in the land.
 And now it came to pass in the eleventh month of the nineteenth year, on the tenth day of the month, the armies of the Lamanites were seen approaching towards the land of aAmmonihah.
And behold, the city had been rebuilt, and Moroni had stationed an army by the borders of the city, and they had acast up dirt round about to shield them from the arrows and the bstones of the Lamanites; for behold, they fought with stones and with arrows.
Behold, I said that the city of aAmmonihah had been rebuilt.
I say unto you, yea, that it was in part rebuilt; and because the Lamanites had destroyed it once because of the iniquity of the people, they supposed that it would again become an easy prey for them.
But behold, how great was their disappointment; for behold, the Nephites had dug up a aridge of earth round about them, which was so high that the Lamanites could not cast their stones and their arrows at them that they might take effect, neither could they come upon them save it was by their place of bentrance.
Now at this time the chief acaptains of the Lamanites were astonished exceedingly, because of the wisdom of the Nephites in preparing their places of security.
Now the leaders of the Lamanites had supposed, because of the greatness of their numbers, yea, they supposed that they should be privileged to come upon them as they had hitherto done; yea, and they had also prepared themselves with shields, and with abreastplates; and they had also prepared themselves with garments of skins, yea, very thick garments to cover their nakedness.
And being thus prepared they supposed that they should easily overpower and asubject their brethren to the yoke of bondage, or slay and massacre them according to their pleasure.
But behold, to their uttermost astonishment, they were aprepared for them, in a manner which never had been known among the children of Lehi.
Now they were prepared for the Lamanites, to battle after the manner of the instructions of Moroni.
And it came to pass that the Lamanites, or the Amalickiahites, were exceedingly astonished at their manner of preparation for war.
Now, if king Amalickiah had come down out of the aland of Nephi, at the head of his army, perhaps he would have caused the Lamanites to have attacked the Nephites at the city of Ammonihah; for behold, he did care not for the blood of his people.
But behold, Amalickiah did not come down himself to battle.
And behold, his chief captains durst not attack the Nephites at the city of Ammonihah, for Moroni had altered the management of affairs among the Nephites, insomuch that the Lamanites were disappointed in their places of retreat and they could not come upon them.
Therefore they retreated into the wilderness, and took their camp and marched towards the land of aNoah, supposing that to be the next best place for them to come against the Nephites.
For they knew not that Moroni had fortified, or had built aforts of security, for every city in all the land round about; therefore, they marched forward to the land of Noah with a firm determination; yea, their chief captains came forward and took an boath that they would destroy the people of that city.
But behold, to their astonishment, the city of Noah, which had hitherto been a weak place, had now, by the means of Moroni, become strong, yea, even to exceed the strength of the city Ammonihah.
And now, behold, this was wisdom in Moroni; for he had supposed that they would be frightened at the city Ammonihah; and as the city of Noah had hitherto been the weakest part of the land, therefore they would march thither to battle; and thus it was according to his desires.
And behold, Moroni had appointed Lehi to be chief captain over the men of that city; and it was that asame Lehi who fought with the Lamanites in the valley on the east of the river Sidon.
And now behold it came to pass, that when the Lamanites had found that Lehi commanded the city they were again disappointed, for they feared Lehi exceedingly; nevertheless their chief captains had asworn with an oath to attack the city; therefore, they brought up their armies.
Now behold, the Lamanites could not get into their forts of security by any other way save by the entrance, because of the highness of the bank which had been thrown up, and the depth of the ditch which had been dug round about, save it were by the entrance.
And thus were the Nephites prepared to destroy all such as should attempt to climb up to enter the fort by any other way, by casting over stones and arrows at them.
Thus they were prepared, yea, a body of their strongest men, with their swords and their slings, to smite down all who should attempt to come into their place of security by the place of aentrance; and thus were they prepared to defend themselves against the Lamanites.
And it came to pass that the captains of the Lamanites brought up their armies before the place of entrance, and began to contend with the Nephites, to get into their place of security; but behold, they were driven back from time to time, insomuch that they were slain with an immense slaughter.
Now when they found that they could not obtain power over the Nephites by the pass, they began to dig down their banks of earth that they might obtain a pass to their armies, that they might have an equal chance to fight; but behold, in these attempts they were swept off by the stones and arrows which were thrown at them; and instead of filling up their ditches by pulling down the banks of earth, they were filled up in a measure with their dead and wounded bodies.
Thus the Nephites had all power over their enemies; and thus the Lamanites did attempt to destroy the Nephites until their achief captains were all slain; yea, and more than a thousand of the Lamanites were slain; while, on the other hand, there was not a single soul of the Nephites which was slain.
There were about fifty who were wounded, who had been exposed to the arrows of the Lamanites through the pass, but they were shielded by their ashields, and their breastplates, and their head-plates, insomuch that their wounds were upon their legs, many of which were very severe.
And it came to pass, that when the Lamanites saw that their chief captains were all slain they fled into the wilderness.
And it came to pass that they returned to the land of Nephi, to inform their king, Amalickiah, who was a aNephite by birth, concerning their great bloss.
And it came to pass that he was exceedingly angry with his people, because he had not obtained his desire over the Nephites; he had not subjected them to the yoke of bondage.
Yea, he was exceedingly wroth, and he did acurse God, and also Moroni, swearing with an boath that he would drink his blood; and this because Moroni had kept the commandments of God in preparing for the safety of his people.
And it came to pass, that on the other hand, the people of Nephi did athank the Lord their God, because of his matchless power in delivering them from the hands of their enemies.
And thus ended the nineteenth year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi.
Yea, and there was continual peace among them, and exceedingly great prosperity in the church because of their heed and diligence which they gave unto the word of God, which was declared unto them by Helaman, and Shiblon, and Corianton, and Ammon and his brethren, yea, and by all those who had been ordained by the aholy order of God, being baptized unto repentance, and sent forth to preach among the people.
 Now it came to pass that Alma began to adeliver the word of bGod unto the people, first in the land of Zarahemla, and from thence throughout all the land.
And these are the words which he spake to the people in the church which was established in the city of Zarahemla, according to his own record, saying: I, Alma, having been aconsecrated by my father, Alma, to be a bhigh priest over the church of God, he having power and cauthority from God to do these things, behold, I say unto you that he began to establish a church in the dland which was in the borders of Nephi; yea, the land which was called the land of Mormon; yea, and he did baptize his brethren in the waters of Mormon.
And behold, I say unto you, they were adelivered out of the hands of the people of king Noah, by the mercy and power of God.
And behold, after that, they were brought into abondage by the hands of the Lamanites in the wilderness; yea, I say unto you, they were in captivity, and again the Lord did deliver them out of bbondage by the power of his word; and we were brought into this land, and here we began to establish the church of God throughout this land also.
And now behold, I say unto you, my brethren, you that belong to this church, have you sufficiently retained in aremembrance the captivity of your fathers?
Yea, and have you sufficiently retained in remembrance his mercy and long-suffering towards them?
And moreover, have ye sufficiently retained in remembrance that he has bdelivered their souls from hell?
Behold, he changed their hearts; yea, he awakened them out of a deep sleep, and they awoke unto God.
Behold, they were in the midst of darkness; nevertheless, their souls were illuminated by the light of the everlasting word; yea, they were encircled about by the abands of death, and the bchains of hell, and an everlasting destruction did await them.
And now I ask of you, my brethren, were they destroyed?
Behold, I say unto you, Nay, they were not.
And again I ask, were the bands of death broken, and the achains of hell which encircled them about, were they loosed?
I say unto you, Yea, they were loosed, and their souls did expand, and they did bsing redeeming love.
And I say unto you that they are saved.
And now I ask of you on what conditions are they asaved?
Yea, what grounds had they to hope for salvation?
What is the cause of their being loosed from the bands of death, yea, and also the chains of hell?
Behold, I can tell you—did not my father Alma believe in the words which were delivered by the amouth of Abinadi?
And was he not a holy prophet?
Did he not speak the words of God, and my father Alma believe them?
And according to his faith there was a mighty achange wrought in his heart.
Behold I say unto you that this is all true.
And behold, he apreached the word unto your fathers, and a mighty change was also wrought in their hearts, and they humbled themselves and put their btrust in the true and cliving God.
And behold, they were faithful until the dend; therefore they were saved.
And now behold, I ask of you, my brethren of the church, have ye aspiritually been bborn of God?
Have ye received his image in your countenances?
Have ye experienced this mighty cchange in your hearts?
Do ye exercise faith in the redemption of him who acreated you?
Do you look forward with an eye of faith, and view this mortal body raised in immortality, and this corruption braised in incorruption, to stand before God to be cjudged according to the deeds which have been done in the mortal body?
I say unto you, can you imagine to yourselves that ye hear the voice of the Lord, saying unto you, in that day: Come unto me ye ablessed, for behold, your works have been the works of righteousness upon the face of the earth?
Or do ye aimagine to yourselves that ye can lie unto the Lord in that day, and bsay—Lord, our works have been righteous works upon the face of the earth—and that he will save you?
Or otherwise, can ye imagine yourselves brought before the tribunal of God with your souls filled with guilt and remorse, having a remembrance of all your guilt, yea, a perfect aremembrance of all your wickedness, yea, a remembrance that ye have set at defiance the commandments of God?
I say unto you, can ye look up to God at that day with a pure heart and clean hands?
I say unto you, can you look up, having the aimage of God engraven upon your countenances?
I say unto you, can ye think of being saved when you have yielded yourselves to become asubjects to the devil?
I say unto you, ye will know at that day that ye cannot be asaved; for there can no man be saved except his bgarments are washed white; yea, his garments must be cpurified until they are cleansed from all stain, through the blood of him of whom it has been spoken by our fathers, who should come to redeem his people from their sins.
And now I ask of you, my brethren, how will any of you feel, if ye shall stand before the bar of God, having your garments stained with ablood and all manner of bfilthiness?
Behold, what will these things testify against you?
Behold will they not atestify that ye are murderers, yea, and also that ye are bguilty of all manner of wickedness?
Behold, my brethren, do ye suppose that such an one can have a place to sit down in the kingdom of God, with aAbraham, with Isaac, and with Jacob, and also all the holy prophets, whose garments are cleansed and are spotless, pure and white?
I say unto you, Nay; except ye make our Creator a liar from the beginning, or suppose that he is a liar from the beginning, ye cannot suppose that such can have place in the kingdom of heaven; but they shall be cast out for they are the achildren of the kingdom of the devil.
And now behold, I say unto you, my brethren, if ye have experienced a achange of heart, and if ye have felt to sing the bsong of redeeming love, I would ask, ccan ye feel so now?
Have ye walked, keeping yourselves ablameless before God?
Could ye say, if ye were called to die at this time, within yourselves, that ye have been sufficiently bhumble?
That your garments have been ccleansed and made white through the blood of Christ, who will come to dredeem his people from their sins?
Behold, are ye stripped of apride?
I say unto you, if ye are not ye are not prepared to meet God.
Behold ye must prepare quickly; for the kingdom of heaven is soon at hand, and such an one hath not eternal life.
Behold, I say, is there one among you who is not stripped of aenvy?
I say unto you that such an one is not prepared; and I would that he should prepare bquickly, for the hour is close at hand, and he knoweth not when the time shall come; for such an one is not found guiltless.
And again I say unto you, is there one among you that doth make a amock of his brother, or that heapeth upon him persecutions?
Wo unto such an one, for he is not prepared, and the atime is at hand that he must repent or he cannot be saved!
Yea, even wo unto all ye aworkers of iniquity; repent, repent, for the Lord God hath spoken it!
Behold, he sendeth an invitation unto aall men, for the barms of mercy are extended towards them, and he saith: Repent, and I will receive you.
Yea, he saith: aCome unto me and ye shall partake of the bfruit of the tree of life; yea, ye shall eat and drink of the cbread and the waters of life dfreely; Yea, come unto me and bring forth works of righteousness, and ye shall not be hewn down and cast into the fire— For behold, the time is at hand that whosoever abringeth forth not good fruit, or whosoever doeth not the works of righteousness, the same have cause to wail and mourn.
O ye workers of iniquity; ye that are apuffed up in the vain things of the world, ye that have professed to have known the ways of righteousness nevertheless have gone bastray, as csheep having no dshepherd, notwithstanding a shepherd hath ecalled after you and is still calling after you, but ye will not fhearken unto his voice!
Behold, I say unto you, that the good ashepherd doth call you; yea, and in his own name he doth call you, which is the name of Christ; and if ye will not bhearken unto the voice of the cgood shepherd, to the dname by which ye are called, behold, ye are not the sheep of the good shepherd.
And now if ye are not the asheep of the good shepherd, of what fold are ye?
Behold, I say unto you, that the bdevil is your shepherd, and ye are of his fold; and now, who can deny this?
Behold, I say unto you, whosoever denieth this is a cliar and a dchild of the devil.
For I say unto you that whatsoever is agood cometh from God, and whatsoever is bevil cometh from the devil.
Therefore, if a man bringeth forth agood works he hearkeneth unto the voice of the good shepherd, and he doth follow him; but whosoever bringeth forth evil works, the same becometh a bchild of the devil, for he hearkeneth unto his voice, and doth follow him.
And whosoever doeth this must receive his awages of him; therefore, for his bwages he receiveth cdeath, as to things pertaining unto righteousness, being dead unto all good works.
And now, my brethren, I would that ye should hear me, for I speak in the aenergy of my soul; for behold, I have spoken unto you plainly that ye cannot err, or have spoken according to the commandments of God.
For I am called to speak after this manner, according to the aholy order of God, which is in Christ Jesus; yea, I am commanded to stand and testify unto this people the things which have been spoken by our fathers concerning the things which are to come.
And this is not all.
Do ye not suppose that I aknow of these things myself?
Behold, I testify unto you that I do know that these things whereof I have spoken are true.
And how do ye suppose that I know of their surety?
Behold, I say unto you they are made aknown unto me by the Holy Spirit of God.
Behold, I have bfasted and prayed many days that I might know these things of myself.
And now I do know of myself that they are true; for the Lord God hath made them manifest unto me by his Holy Spirit; and this is the spirit of crevelation which is in me.
And moreover, I say unto you that it has thus been revealed unto me, that the words which have been spoken by our fathers are true, even so according to the spirit of prophecy which is in me, which is also by the manifestation of the Spirit of God.
I say unto you, that I know of myself that whatsoever I shall say unto you, concerning that which is to come, is true; and I say unto you, that I know that Jesus Christ shall come, yea, the Son, the Only Begotten of the Father, full of grace, and mercy, and truth.
And behold, it is he that cometh to take away the sins of the world, yea, the sins of every man who steadfastly believeth on his name.
And now I say unto you that this is the aorder after which I am called, yea, to preach unto my beloved brethren, yea, and every one that dwelleth in the land; yea, to preach unto all, both old and young, both bond and free; yea, I say unto you the aged, and also the middle aged, and the rising generation; yea, to cry unto them that they must repent and be bborn again.
Yea, thus saith the Spirit: Repent, all ye ends of the earth, for the kingdom of heaven is soon at hand; yea, the Son of God cometh in his aglory, in his might, majesty, power, and dominion.
Yea, my beloved brethren, I say unto you, that the Spirit saith: Behold the glory of the bKing of all the earth; and also the King of heaven shall very soon shine forth among all the children of men.
And also the Spirit saith unto me, yea, crieth unto me with a mighty voice, saying: Go forth and say unto this people—Repent, for except ye repent ye can in nowise inherit the akingdom of bheaven.
And again I say unto you, the Spirit saith: Behold, the aax is laid at the root of the tree; therefore every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit shall be bhewn down and cast into the fire, yea, a fire which cannot be consumed, even an unquenchable fire.
Behold, and remember, the Holy One hath spoken it.
And now my beloved brethren, I say unto you, can ye withstand these sayings; yea, can ye lay aside these things, and atrample the Holy One under your feet; yea, can ye be bpuffed up in the pride of your hearts; yea, will ye still persist in the wearing of ccostly apparel and setting your hearts upon the vain things of the world, upon your driches?
Yea, will ye persist in supposing that ye are better one than another; yea, will ye persist in the persecution of your brethren, who humble themselves and do walk after the holy order of God, wherewith they have been brought into this church, having been asanctified by the Holy Spirit, and they do bring forth works which are meet for repentance— Yea, and will you persist in turning your backs upon the apoor, and the needy, and in withholding your substance from them?
And finally, all ye that will persist in your wickedness, I say unto you that these are they who shall be hewn down and cast into the fire except they speedily repent.
And now I say unto you, all you that are desirous to follow the voice of the agood shepherd, come ye out from the wicked, and be ye bseparate, and touch not their unclean things; and behold, their names shall be cblotted out, that the names of the wicked shall not be numbered among the names of the righteous, that the word of God may be fulfilled, which saith: The names of the wicked shall not be mingled with the names of my people; For the names of the righteous shall be written in the abook of life, and unto them will I grant an inheritance at my right hand.
And now, my brethren, what have ye to say against this?
I say unto you, if ye speak against it, it matters not, for the word of God must be fulfilled.
For what shepherd is there among you having many sheep doth not watch over them, that the wolves enter not and devour his flock?
And behold, if a wolf enter his aflock doth he not drive him out?
Yea, and at the last, if he can, he will destroy him.
And now I say unto you that the good shepherd doth call after you; and if you will hearken unto his voice he will bring you into his fold, and ye are his sheep; and he commandeth you that ye suffer no ravenous wolf to enter among you, that ye may not be destroyed.
And now I, Alma, do command you in the language of ahim who hath commanded me, that ye observe to do the words which I have spoken unto you.
I speak by way of command unto you that belong to the church; and unto those who do not belong to the church I speak by way of invitation, saying: Come and be baptized unto repentance, that ye also may be partakers of the fruit of the atree of life.
 And now it came to pass that Moroni did not stop making preparations for war, or to defend his people against the Lamanites; for he caused that his armies should commence in the commencement of the twentieth year of the reign of the judges, that they should commence in digging up aheaps of earth round about all the cities, throughout all the land which was possessed by the Nephites.
And upon the top of these ridges of earth he caused that there should be atimbers, yea, works of timbers built up to the height of a man, round about the cities.
And he caused that upon those works of timbers there should be a frame of pickets built upon the timbers round about; and they were strong and high.
And he caused towers to be erected that overlooked those works of pickets, and he caused places of security to be built upon those atowers, that the stones and the arrows of the Lamanites could not hurt them.
And they were prepared that they could cast stones from the top thereof, according to their pleasure and their strength, and slay him who should attempt to approach near the walls of the city.
Thus Moroni did prepare strongholds against the coming of their enemies, round about every city in all the land.
And it came to pass that Moroni caused that his armies should go forth into the east wilderness; yea, and they went forth and drove all the Lamanites who were in the east wilderness into their own lands, which were asouth of the land of Zarahemla.
And the land of aNephi did run in a straight course from the east sea to the west.
And it came to pass that when Moroni had driven all the Lamanites out of the east wilderness, which was north of the lands of their own possessions, he caused that the inhabitants who were in the land of Zarahemla and in the land round about should go forth into the east wilderness, even to the borders by the seashore, and possess the land.
And he also placed armies on the south, in the borders of their possessions, and caused them to erect afortifications that they might secure their armies and their people from the hands of their enemies.
And thus he cut off all the strongholds of the Lamanites in the east wilderness, yea, and also on the west, fortifying the line between the Nephites and the Lamanites, between the land of Zarahemla and the land of Nephi, from the west sea, running by the head of the ariver Sidon—the Nephites possessing all the land bnorthward, yea, even all the land which was northward of the land Bountiful, according to their pleasure.
Thus Moroni, with his armies, which did increase daily because of the assurance of protection which his works did bring forth unto them, did seek to cut off the strength and the power of the Lamanites from off the lands of their possessions, that they should have no power upon the lands of their possession.
And it came to pass that the Nephites began the foundation of a city, and they called the name of the city aMoroni; and it was by the east sea; and it was on the south by the line of the possessions of the Lamanites.
And they also began a foundation for a city between the city of Moroni and the city of Aaron, joining the borders of Aaron and Moroni; and they called the name of the city, or the land, aNephihah.
And they also began in that same year to build many cities on the north, one in a particular manner which they called aLehi, which was in the north by the borders of the seashore.
And thus ended the twentieth year.
And in these prosperous circumstances were the people of Nephi in the commencement of the twenty and first year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi.
And they did prosper aexceedingly, and they became exceedingly rich; yea, and they did multiply and wax strong in the land.
And thus we see how merciful and just are all the dealings of the Lord, to the fulfilling of all his words unto the children of men; yea, we can behold that his words are verified, even at this time, which he spake unto Lehi, saying: Blessed art thou and thy children; and they shall be blessed, inasmuch as they shall keep my acommandments they shall prosper in the land.
But remember, inasmuch as they will not keep my commandments they shall be bcut off from the presence of the Lord.
And we see that these promises have been verified to the people of Nephi; for it has been their quarrelings and their contentions, yea, their murderings, and their plunderings, their idolatry, their whoredoms, and their abominations, which were among themselves, which abrought upon them their wars and their destructions.
And those who were faithful in keeping the commandments of the Lord were delivered at all times, whilst thousands of their wicked brethren have been consigned to bondage, or to perish by the sword, or to dwindle in unbelief, and mingle with the Lamanites.
But behold there never was a ahappier time among the people of Nephi, since the days of Nephi, than in the days of Moroni, yea, even at this time, in the twenty and first year of the reign of the judges.
And it came to pass that the twenty and second year of the reign of the judges also ended in peace; yea, and also the twenty and third year.
And it came to pass that in the commencement of the twenty and fourth year of the reign of the judges, there would also have been peace among the people of Nephi had it not been for a acontention which took place among them concerning the land of bLehi, and the land of cMorianton, which joined upon the borders of Lehi; both of which were on the borders by the seashore.
For behold, the people who possessed the land of Morianton did claim a part of the land of Lehi; therefore there began to be a warm acontention between them, insomuch that the people of Morianton took up arms against their brethren, and they were determined by the sword to slay them.
But behold, the people who possessed the land of Lehi fled to the camp of Moroni, and appealed unto him for assistance; for behold they were not in the wrong.
And it came to pass that when the people of Morianton, who were led by a man whose name was Morianton, found that the people of Lehi had fled to the camp of Moroni, they were exceedingly fearful lest the army of Moroni should come upon them and destroy them.
Therefore, Morianton put it into their hearts that they should flee to the land which was northward, which was covered with alarge bodies of water, and take possession of the land which was bnorthward.
And behold, they would have carried this plan into effect, (which would have been a cause to have been lamented) but behold, Morianton being a man of much passion, therefore he was angry with one of his maid servants, and he fell upon her and beat her much.
And it came to pass that she fled, and came over to the camp of Moroni, and told Moroni all things concerning the matter, and also concerning their intentions to flee into the land northward.
Now behold, the people who were in the land Bountiful, or rather Moroni, feared that they would hearken to the words of Morianton and unite with his people, and thus he would obtain possession of those parts of the land, which would lay a foundation for serious consequences among the people of Nephi, yea, which aconsequences would lead to the overthrow of their bliberty.
Therefore Moroni sent an army, with their camp, to head the people of Morianton, to stop their flight into the land northward.
And it came to pass that they did not ahead them until they had come to the borders of the land bDesolation; and there they did head them, by the narrow pass which led by the sea into the land northward, yea, by the sea, on the west and on the east.
And it came to pass that the army which was sent by Moroni, which was led by a man whose name was Teancum, did meet the people of Morianton; and so stubborn were the people of Morianton, (being inspired by his wickedness and his aflattering words) that a battle commenced between them, in the which Teancum did bslay Morianton and defeat his army, and took them prisoners, and returned to the camp of Moroni.
And thus ended the twenty and fourth year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi.
And thus were the people of Morianton brought back.
And upon their acovenanting to keep the peace they were restored to the land of Morianton, and a union took place between them and the people of Lehi; and they were also restored to their lands.
And it came to pass that in the same year that the people of Nephi had peace restored unto them, that Nephihah, the asecond chief judge, died, having filled the judgment-seat with bperfect uprightness before God.
Nevertheless, he had refused Alma to take possession of those arecords and those things which were esteemed by Alma and his fathers to be most sacred; therefore Alma had conferred bthem upon his son, Helaman.
Behold, it came to pass that the son of Nephihah was appointed to fill the judgment-seat, in the stead of his father; yea, he was appointed chief judge and agovernor over the people, with an boath and sacred ordinance to judge righteously, and to keep the peace and the cfreedom of the people, and to grant unto them their sacred privileges to worship the Lord their God, yea, to support and maintain the cause of God all his days, and to bring the wicked to justice according to their crime.
Now behold, his name was aPahoran.
And Pahoran did fill the seat of his father, and did commence his reign in the end of the twenty and fourth year, over the people of Nephi.
 And now it came to pass in the commencement of the twenty and fifth year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi, they having established peace between the people of Lehi and the people of Morianton concerning their lands, and having commenced the twenty and fifth year in apeace; Nevertheless, they did not long maintain an entire peace in the land, for there began to be a contention among the people concerning the chief judge Pahoran; for behold, there were a part of the people who desired that a few particular points of the alaw should be altered.
But behold, Pahoran would not alter nor suffer the law to be altered; therefore, he did not hearken to those who had sent in their voices with their petitions concerning the altering of the law.
Therefore, those who were desirous that the law should be altered were angry with him, and desired that he should no longer be chief judge over the land; therefore there arose a warm adispute concerning the matter, but not unto bloodshed.
And it came to pass that those who were desirous that Pahoran should be dethroned from the judgment-seat were called aking-men, for they were desirous that the law should be altered in a manner to overthrow the free government and to establish a bking over the land.
And those who were desirous that Pahoran should remain chief judge over the land took upon them the name of afreemen; and thus was the bdivision among them, for the freemen had sworn or ccovenanted to maintain their rights and the privileges of their religion by a free government.
And it came to pass that this matter of their contention was settled by the avoice of the people.
And it came to pass that the voice of the people came in favor of the freemen, and Pahoran retained the judgment-seat, which caused much rejoicing among the brethren of Pahoran and also many of the people of liberty, who also put the king-men to silence, that they durst not oppose but were obliged to maintain the cause of freedom.
Now those who were in favor of kings were those of ahigh birth, and they sought to be bkings; and they were supported by those who sought power and authority over the people.
But behold, this was a critical time for such contentions to be among the people of Nephi; for behold, Amalickiah had again astirred up the hearts of the people of the Lamanites against the people of the Nephites, and he was gathering together soldiers from all parts of his land, and arming them, and preparing for war with all diligence; for he had bsworn to drink the blood of Moroni.
But behold, we shall see that his promise which he made was arash; nevertheless, he did prepare himself and his armies to come to battle against the Nephites.
Now his armies were not so great as they had hitherto been, because of the many thousands who had been aslain by the hand of the Nephites; but notwithstanding their great loss, Amalickiah had gathered together a wonderfully great army, insomuch that he feared not to come down to the land of Zarahemla.
Yea, even Amalickiah did himself come down, at the head of the Lamanites.
And it was in the twenty and fifth year of the reign of the judges; and it was at the same time that they had begun to settle the affairs of their contentions concerning the chief judge, Pahoran.
And it came to pass that when the men who were called king-men had heard that the Lamanites were coming down to battle against them, they were glad in their hearts; and they refused to take up arms, for they were so wroth with the chief judge, and also with the apeople of bliberty, that they would not take up arms to defend their country.
And it came to pass that when Moroni saw this, and also saw that the Lamanites were coming into the borders of the land, he was exceedingly wroth because of the astubbornness of those people whom he had labored with so much diligence to preserve; yea, he was exceedingly wroth; his soul was filled with anger against them.
And it came to pass that he sent a petition, with the voice of the people, unto the governor of the land, desiring that he should read it, and give him (Moroni) power to compel those dissenters to defend their country or to put them to death.
For it was his first care to put an end to such contentions and dissensions among the people; for behold, this had been hitherto a cause of all their destruction.
And it came to pass that it was granted according to the voice of the people.
And it came to pass that Moroni commanded that his army should go against those king-men, to pull down their pride and their nobility and level them with the earth, or they should take up arms and support the cause of liberty.
And it came to pass that the armies did march forth against them; and they did pull down their pride and their nobility, insomuch that as they did lift their weapons of war to fight against the men of Moroni they were hewn down and leveled to the earth.
And it came to pass that there were four thousand of those adissenters who were hewn down by the sword; and those of their leaders who were not slain in battle were taken and bcast into prison, for there was no time for their trials at this period.
And the remainder of those dissenters, rather than be smitten down to the earth by the sword, yielded to the standard of liberty, and were compelled to hoist the atitle of liberty upon their towers, and in their cities, and to take up arms in defence of their country.
And thus Moroni put an end to those king-men, that there were not any known by the appellation of king-men; and thus he put an end to the stubbornness and the pride of those people who professed the blood of nobility; but they were brought down to humble themselves like unto their brethren, and to fight avaliantly for their freedom from bondage.
Behold, it came to pass that while Moroni was thus breaking down the wars and contentions among his own people, and subjecting them to peace and civilization, and making regulations to prepare for war against the Lamanites, behold, the Lamanites had come into the aland of Moroni, which was in the borders by the seashore.
And it came to pass that the Nephites were not sufficiently strong in the city of Moroni; therefore Amalickiah did drive them, slaying many.
And it came to pass that Amalickiah took possession of the city, yea, possession of all their fortifications.
And those who fled out of the acity of Moroni came to the city of Nephihah; and also the people of the city of Lehi gathered themselves together, and made preparations and were ready to receive the Lamanites to battle.
But it came to pass that Amalickiah would not suffer the Lamanites to go against the city of Nephihah to battle, but kept them down by the seashore, leaving men in every city to maintain and defend it.
And thus he went on, taking possession of amany cities, the city of bNephihah, and the city of cLehi, and the city of dMorianton, and the city of Omner, and the city of eGid, and the city of fMulek, all of which were on the east borders by the seashore.
And thus had the Lamanites obtained, by the cunning of Amalickiah, so many cities, by their numberless hosts, all of which were strongly fortified after the manner of the afortifications of Moroni; all of which afforded strongholds for the Lamanites.
And it came to pass that they marched to the aborders of the land Bountiful, driving the Nephites before them and slaying many.
But it came to pass that they were met by Teancum, who had aslain Morianton and had bheaded his people in his flight.
And it came to pass that he headed Amalickiah also, as he was marching forth with his numerous army that he might take possession of the land Bountiful, and also the land anorthward.
But behold he met with a disappointment by being repulsed by Teancum and his men, for they were great warriors; for every man of Teancum did exceed the Lamanites in their strength and in their skill of war, insomuch that they did gain advantage over the Lamanites.
And it came to pass that they did harass them, insomuch that they did slay them even until it was dark.
And it came to pass that Teancum and his men did pitch their tents in the borders of the land Bountiful; and Amalickiah did pitch his tents in the borders on the beach by the seashore, and after this manner were they driven.
And it came to pass that when the night had come, Teancum and his servant stole forth and went out by night, and went into the camp of Amalickiah; and behold, sleep had overpowered them because of their much fatigue, which was caused by the labors and heat of the day.
And it came to pass that Teancum stole privily into the tent of the king, and aput a javelin to his heart; and he did cause the bdeath of the king immediately that he did not awake his servants.
And he returned again privily to his own camp, and behold, his men were asleep, and he awoke them and told them all the things that he had done.
And he caused that his armies should stand in areadiness, lest the Lamanites had awakened and should come upon them.
And thus endeth the twenty and fifth year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi; and thus endeth the days of Amalickiah.
 And now, it came to pass in the twenty and sixth year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi, behold, when the Lamanites awoke on the first morning of the first month, behold, they found Amalickiah was dead in his own tent; and they also saw that Teancum was aready to give them battle on that day.
And now, when the Lamanites saw this they were affrighted; and they abandoned their design in marching into the land northward, and retreated with all their army into the city of aMulek, and sought protection in their fortifications.
And it came to pass that the abrother of Amalickiah was appointed king over the people; and his name was bAmmoron; thus king Ammoron, the brother of king Amalickiah, was appointed to reign in his stead.
And it came to pass that he did command that his people should maintain those cities, which they had taken by the shedding of blood; for they had not taken any cities save they had lost much blood.
And now, Teancum saw that the Lamanites were determined to maintain those cities which they had taken, and those parts of the land which they had obtained possession of; and also seeing the enormity of their number, Teancum thought it was not expedient that he should attempt to attack them in their forts.
But he kept his men round about, as if making preparations for war; yea, and truly he was preparing to defend himself against them, by acasting up walls round about and preparing places of resort.
And it came to pass that he kept thus preparing for war until Moroni had sent a large number of men to strengthen his army.
And Moroni also sent orders unto him that he should retain all the prisoners who fell into his hands; for as the Lamanites had taken many prisoners, that he should retain all the prisoners of the Lamanites as a aransom for those whom the Lamanites had taken.
And he also sent orders unto him that he should fortify the land aBountiful, and secure the bnarrow pass which led into the land cnorthward, lest the Lamanites should obtain that point and should have power to harass them on every side.
And Moroni also sent unto him, desiring him that he would be afaithful in maintaining that quarter of the land, and that he would seek every opportunity to scourge the Lamanites in that quarter, as much as was in his power, that perhaps he might take again by stratagem or some other way those cities which had been taken out of their hands; and that he also would fortify and strengthen the cities round about, which had not fallen into the hands of the Lamanites.
And he also said unto him, I would come unto you, but behold, the Lamanites are upon us in the borders of the land by the west sea; and behold, I go against them, therefore I cannot come unto you.
Now, the king (Ammoron) had adeparted out of the land of Zarahemla, and had made known unto the queen concerning the death of his brother, and had gathered together a large number of men, and had marched forth against the Nephites on the borders by the west sea.
And thus he was endeavoring to harass the Nephites, and to draw away a part of their forces to that part of the land, while he had commanded those whom he had left to possess the cities which he had taken, that they should also harass the Nephites on the borders by the east sea, and should take possession of their lands as much as it was in their power, according to the power of their armies.
And thus were the Nephites in those dangerous circumstances in the ending of the twenty and sixth year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi.
But behold, it came to pass in the twenty and seventh year of the reign of the judges, that Teancum, by the command of Moroni—who had established armies to protect the south and the west borders of the land, and had begun his march towards the land Bountiful, that he might assist Teancum with his men in retaking the cities which they had lost— And it came to pass that Teancum had received orders to make an attack upon the city of Mulek, and retake it if it were possible.
And it came to pass that Teancum made preparations to make an attack upon the city of Mulek, and march forth with his army against the Lamanites; but he saw that it was impossible that he could overpower them while they were in their fortifications; therefore he abandoned his designs and returned again to the city Bountiful, to wait for the coming of Moroni, that he might receive strength to his army.
And it came to pass that Moroni did arrive with his army at the land of Bountiful, in the latter end of the twenty and seventh year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi.
And in the commencement of the twenty and eighth year, Moroni and Teancum and many of the chief acaptains held a council of war—what they should do to cause the Lamanites to come out against them to battle; or that they might by some means flatter them out of their strongholds, that they might gain advantage over them and take again the city of Mulek.
And it came to pass they sent embassies to the army of the Lamanites, which protected the city of Mulek, to their leader, whose name was Jacob, desiring him that he would come out with his armies to meet them upon the plains between the two cities.
But behold, Jacob, who was a aZoramite, would not come out with his army to meet them upon the plains.
And it came to pass that Moroni, having no hopes of meeting them upon fair grounds, therefore, he resolved upon a plan that he might adecoy the Lamanites out of their strongholds.
Therefore he caused that Teancum should take a small number of men and march down near the seashore; and Moroni and his army, by night, marched in the wilderness, on the west of the city aMulek; and thus, on the morrow, when the guards of the Lamanites had discovered Teancum, they ran and told it unto Jacob, their leader.
And it came to pass that the armies of the Lamanites did march forth against Teancum, supposing by their numbers to overpower Teancum because of the smallness of his numbers.
And as Teancum saw the armies of the Lamanites coming out against him he began to retreat down by the seashore, northward.
And it came to pass that when the Lamanites saw that he began to flee, they took courage and pursued them with vigor.
And while Teancum was thus leading away the Lamanites who were pursuing them in vain, behold, Moroni commanded that a part of his army who were with him should march forth into the city, and take possession of it.
And thus they did, and slew all those who had been left to protect the city, yea, all those who would not ayield up their weapons of war.
And thus Moroni had obtained possession of the city Mulek with a part of his army, while he marched with the remainder to meet the Lamanites when they should return from the pursuit of Teancum.
And it came to pass that the Lamanites did pursue Teancum until they came near the city Bountiful, and then they were met by Lehi and a small army, which had been left to protect the city Bountiful.
And now behold, when the chief captains of the Lamanites had beheld Lehi with his army coming against them, they fled in much confusion, lest perhaps they should not obtain the city Mulek before Lehi should overtake them; for they were wearied because of their march, and the men of Lehi were fresh.
Now the Lamanites did not know that Moroni had been in their rear with his army; and all they feared was Lehi and his men.
Now Lehi was not desirous to overtake them till they should meet Moroni and his army.
And it came to pass that before the Lamanites had retreated far they were surrounded by the Nephites, by the men of Moroni on one hand, and the men of Lehi on the other, all of whom were fresh and full of strength; but the Lamanites were wearied because of their long march.
And Moroni commanded his men that they should fall upon them until they had given up their weapons of war.
And it came to pass that Jacob, being their leader, being also a aZoramite, and having an unconquerable spirit, he led the Lamanites forth to battle with exceeding fury against Moroni.
Moroni being in their course of march, therefore Jacob was determined to slay them and cut his way through to the city of Mulek.
But behold, Moroni and his men were more powerful; therefore they did not give way before the Lamanites.
And it came to pass that they fought on both hands with exceeding fury; and there were many slain on both sides; yea, and Moroni was wounded and Jacob was killed.
And Lehi pressed upon their rear with such fury with his strong men, that the Lamanites in the rear delivered up their weapons of war; and the remainder of them, being much confused, knew not whither to go or to strike.
Now Moroni seeing their confusion, he said unto them: If ye will bring forth your weapons of war and deliver them up, behold we will forbear shedding your blood.
And it came to pass that when the Lamanites had heard these words, their chief captains, all those who were not slain, came forth and threw down their weapons of war aat the feet of Moroni, and also commanded their men that they should do the same.
But behold, there were many that would not; and those who would not deliver up their swords were taken and bound, and their weapons of war were taken from them, and they were compelled to march with their brethren forth into the land Bountiful.
And now the number of prisoners who were taken exceeded more than the number of those who had been slain, yea, more than those who had been slain on both sides.
 And it came to pass that they did set guards over the prisoners of the Lamanites, and did compel them to go forth and bury their dead, yea, and also the dead of the Nephites who were slain; and Moroni placed men over them to guard them while they should perform their labors.
And Moroni went to the city of Mulek with Lehi, and took command of the city and gave it unto Lehi.
Now behold, this Lehi was a man who had been with Moroni in the more part of all his battles; and he was a man alike unto Moroni, and they rejoiced in each other’s safety; yea, they were beloved by each other, and also beloved by all the people of Nephi.
And it came to pass that after the Lamanites had finished burying their dead and also the dead of the Nephites, they were marched back into the land Bountiful; and Teancum, by the orders of Moroni, caused that they should commence laboring in adigging a ditch round about the land, or the city, bBountiful.
And he caused that they should build a abreastwork of timbers upon the inner bank of the ditch; and they cast up dirt out of the ditch against the breastwork of timbers; and thus they did cause the Lamanites to labor until they had encircled the city of Bountiful round about with a strong wall of timbers and earth, to an exceeding height.
And this city became an exceeding stronghold ever after; and in this city they did guard the prisoners of the Lamanites; yea, even within a wall which they had caused them to abuild with their own hands.
Now Moroni was compelled to cause the Lamanites to labor, because it was easy to guard them while at their labor; and he desired all his forces when he should make an attack upon the Lamanites.
And it came to pass that Moroni had thus gained a victory over one of the greatest of the armies of the Lamanites, and had obtained possession of the city of aMulek, which was one of the strongest holds of the Lamanites in the land of Nephi; and thus he had also built a stronghold to retain his prisoners.
And it came to pass that he did no more attempt a battle with the Lamanites in that year, but he did employ his men in preparing for war, yea, and in making fortifications to guard against the Lamanites, yea, and also delivering their women and their children from famine and affliction, and providing food for their armies.
And now it came to pass that the armies of the Lamanites, on the west sea, south, while in the absence of Moroni on account of some intrigue amongst the Nephites, which caused adissensions amongst them, had gained some ground over the Nephites, yea, insomuch that they had obtained possession of a number of their cities in that part of the land.
And thus because of ainiquity amongst themselves, yea, because of dissensions and intrigue among themselves they were placed in the most dangerous circumstances.
And now behold, I have somewhat to say concerning the apeople of Ammon, who, in the beginning, were Lamanites; but by Ammon and his brethren, or rather by the power and word of God, they had been bconverted unto the Lord; and they had been brought down into the land of Zarahemla, and had ever since been protected by the Nephites.
And because of their oath they had been kept from taking up arms against their brethren; for they had taken an oath that they anever would shed blood more; and according to their oath they would have perished; yea, they would have suffered themselves to have fallen into the hands of their brethren, had it not been for the pity and the exceeding love which Ammon and his brethren had had for them.
And for this cause they were brought down into the land of Zarahemla; and they ever had been aprotected by the Nephites.
But it came to pass that when they saw the danger, and the many aafflictions and tribulations which the Nephites bore for them, they were moved with compassion and were bdesirous to take up arms in the defence of their country.
But behold, as they were about to take their weapons of war, they were overpowered by the persuasions of Helaman and his brethren, for they were about to abreak the boath which they had made.
And Helaman feared lest by so doing they should lose their souls; therefore all those who had entered into this covenant were compelled to behold their brethren wade through their afflictions, in their dangerous circumstances at this time.
But behold, it came to pass they had many asons, who had not entered into a covenant that they would not take their weapons of war to defend themselves against their enemies; therefore they did assemble themselves together at this time, as many as were able to take up arms, and they called themselves Nephites.
And they entered into a covenant to fight for the liberty of the Nephites, yea, to protect the land unto the alaying down of their lives; yea, even they covenanted that they never would give up their bliberty, but they would fight in all cases to protect the Nephites and themselves from bondage.
Now behold, there were two thousand of those young men, who entered into this covenant and took their weapons of war to defend their country.
And now behold, as they never had hitherto been a disadvantage to the Nephites, they became now at this period of time also a great support; for they took their weapons of war, and they would that Helaman should be their leader.
And they were all young men, and they were exceedingly valiant for acourage, and also for strength and activity; but behold, this was not all—they were men who were true at all times in whatsoever thing they were entrusted.
Yea, they were men of truth and asoberness, for they had been taught to keep the commandments of God and to bwalk uprightly before him.
And now it came to pass that Helaman did march at the head of his atwo thousand stripling soldiers, to the support of the people in the borders of the land on the south by the west sea.
And thus ended the twenty and eighth year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi.
 And now it came to pass in the commencement of the twenty and ninth year of the judges, that aAmmoron sent unto Moroni desiring that he would exchange prisoners.
And it came to pass that Moroni felt to arejoice exceedingly at this request, for he desired the provisions which were imparted for the support of the Lamanite prisoners for the support of his own people; and he also desired his own people for the strengthening of his army.
Now the Lamanites had taken many women and children, and there was not a woman nor a child among all the prisoners of Moroni, or the prisoners whom Moroni had taken; therefore Moroni resolved upon a stratagem to obtain as many prisoners of the Nephites from the Lamanites as it were possible.
Therefore he wrote an epistle, and sent it by the servant of Ammoron, the same who had brought an epistle to Moroni.
Now these are the words which he wrote unto Ammoron, saying: Behold, Ammoron, I have written unto you somewhat concerning this war which ye have waged against my people, or rather which thy abrother hath waged against them, and which ye are still determined to carry on after his death.
Behold, I would tell you somewhat concerning the ajustice of God, and the sword of his almighty wrath, which doth hang over you except ye repent and withdraw your armies into your own lands, or the land of your possessions, which is the land of Nephi.
Yea, I would tell you these things if ye were capable of hearkening unto them; yea, I would tell you concerning that awful ahell that awaits to receive such bmurderers as thou and thy brother have been, except ye repent and withdraw your murderous purposes, and return with your armies to your own lands.
But as ye have once rejected these things, and have fought against the people of the Lord, even so I may expect you will do it again.
And now behold, we are prepared to receive you; yea, and except you withdraw your purposes, behold, ye will pull down the awrath of that God whom you have rejected upon you, even to your utter destruction.
But, as the Lord liveth, our armies shall come upon you except ye withdraw, and ye shall soon be visited with adeath, for we will retain our cities and our lands; yea, and we will maintain our religion and the cause of our God.
But behold, it supposeth me that I talk to you concerning these things in vain; or it supposeth me that thou art a achild of hell; therefore I will close my epistle by telling you that I will not exchange prisoners, save it be on conditions that ye will deliver up a man and his wife and his children, for one prisoner; if this be the case that ye will do it, I will exchange.
And behold, if ye do not this, I will come against you with my armies; yea, even I will arm my women and my children, and I will come against you, and I will follow you even into your own land, which is the land of aour first inheritance; yea, and it shall be blood for blood, yea, life for life; and I will give you battle even until you are destroyed from off the face of the earth.
Behold, I am in my anger, and also my people; ye have sought to amurder us, and we have only sought to defend ourselves.
But behold, if ye seek to destroy us more we will seek to destroy you; yea, and we will seek our land, the land of our first inheritance.
Now I close my epistle.
I am Moroni; I am a leader of the people of the Nephites.
Now it came to pass that Ammoron, when he had received this epistle, was angry; and he wrote another epistle unto Moroni, and these are the words which he wrote, saying: I am Ammoron, the king of the Lamanites; I am the brother of Amalickiah whom ye have amurdered.
Behold, I will avenge his blood upon you, yea, and I will come upon you with my armies for I fear not your threatenings.
For behold, your fathers did wrong their brethren, insomuch that they did rob them of their aright to the bgovernment when it rightly belonged unto them.
And now behold, if ye will lay down your arms, and subject yourselves to be governed by those to whom the government doth rightly belong, then will I cause that my people shall lay down their weapons and shall be at war no more.
Behold, ye have breathed out many threatenings against me and my people; but behold, we fear not your threatenings.
Nevertheless, I will grant to exchange prisoners according to your request, gladly, that I may preserve my food for my men of war; and we will wage a war which shall be eternal, either to the subjecting the Nephites to our authority or to their eternal extinction.
And as concerning that God whom ye say we have rejected, behold, we aknow not such a being; neither do ye; but if it so be that there is such a being, we know not but that he hath made us as well as you.
And if it so be that there is a devil and a hell, behold will he not send you there to dwell with my brother whom ye have murdered, whom ye have hinted that he hath gone to such a place?
But behold these things matter not.
I am Ammoron, and a descendant of aZoram, whom your fathers pressed and brought out of Jerusalem.
And behold now, I am a bold Lamanite; behold, this war hath been waged to avenge their wrongs, and ato maintain and to obtain their rights to the government; and I close my epistle to Moroni.
 Now it came to pass that when Moroni had received this epistle he was more angry, because he knew that Ammoron had a perfect knowledge of his afraud; yea, he knew that Ammoron knew that it was not a just cause that had caused him to wage a war against the people of Nephi.
And he said: Behold, I will not exchange prisoners with Ammoron save he will withdraw his apurpose, as I have stated in my epistle; for I will not grant unto him that he shall have any more power than what he hath got.
Behold, I know the place where the Lamanites do guard my people whom they have taken prisoners; and as Ammoron would not grant unto me mine epistle, behold, I will give unto him according to my words; yea, I will seek death among them until they shall sue for peace.
And now it came to pass that when Moroni had said these words, he caused that a search should be made among his men, that perhaps he might find a man who was a descendant of Laman among them.
And it came to pass that they found one, whose name was Laman; and he was aone of the servants of the king who was murdered by Amalickiah.
Now Moroni caused that Laman and a small number of his men should go forth unto the guards who were over the Nephites.
Now the Nephites were guarded in the city of aGid; therefore Moroni appointed Laman and caused that a small number of men should go with him.
And when it was evening Laman went to the guards who were over the Nephites, and behold, they saw him coming and they hailed him; but he saith unto them: Fear not; behold, I am a Lamanite.
Behold, we have escaped from the Nephites, and they sleep; and behold we have taken of their wine and brought with us.
Now when the Lamanites heard these words they received him with joy; and they said unto him: Give us of your wine, that we may drink; we are glad that ye have thus taken wine with you for we are weary.
But Laman said unto them: Let us keep of our wine till we go against the Nephites to battle.
But this saying only made them more desirous to drink of the wine; For, said they: We are weary, therefore let us take of the wine, and by and by we shall receive wine for our rations, which will strengthen us to go against the Nephites.
And Laman said unto them: You may do according to your desires.
And it came to pass that they did take of the wine freely; and it was pleasant to their taste, therefore they took of it more freely; and it was strong, having been prepared in its astrength.
And it came to pass they did drink and were merry, and by and by they were all adrunken.
And now when Laman and his men saw that they were all drunken, and were in a adeep sleep, they returned to Moroni and told him all the things that had happened.
And now this was according to the design of Moroni.
And Moroni had prepared his men with weapons of war; and he went to the city Gid, while the Lamanites were in a deep sleep and drunken, and cast in aweapons of war unto the prisoners, insomuch that they were all armed; Yea, even to their women, and all those of their children, as many as were able to use a weapon of war, when Moroni had armed all those prisoners; and all those things were done in a profound silence.
But had they awakened the Lamanites, behold they were drunken and the Nephites could have slain them.
But behold, this was not the desire of Moroni; he did not adelight in murder or bloodshed, but he delighted in the saving of his people from destruction; and for this cause he might not bring upon him injustice, he would not fall upon the Lamanites and destroy them in their drunkenness.
But he had obtained his desires; for he had armed those prisoners of the Nephites who were within the wall of the city, and had given them power to gain possession of those parts which were within the walls.
And then he caused the men who were with him to withdraw a pace from them, and surround the armies of the Lamanites.
Now behold this was done in the night-time, so that when the Lamanites awoke in the morning they beheld that they were surrounded by the Nephites without, and that their prisoners were armed within.
And thus they saw that the Nephites had power over them; and in these circumstances they found that it was not expedient that they should fight with the Nephites; therefore their chief acaptains demanded their weapons of war, and they brought them forth and bcast them at the feet of the Nephites, pleading for mercy.
Now behold, this was the desire of Moroni.
He took them prisoners of war, and took possession of the city, and caused that all the prisoners should be liberated, who were Nephites; and they did join the army of Moroni, and were a great strength to his army.
And it came to pass that he did cause the Lamanites, whom he had taken prisoners, that they should commence a alabor in strengthening the fortifications round about the city Gid.
And it came to pass that when he had fortified the city Gid, according to his desires, he caused that his prisoners should be taken to the city Bountiful; and he also guarded that city with an exceedingly strong force.
And it came to pass that they did, notwithstanding all the intrigues of the Lamanites, keep and protect all the prisoners whom they had taken, and also maintain all the ground and the advantage which they had retaken.
And it came to pass that the Nephites began aagain to be victorious, and to reclaim their rights and their privileges.
Many times did the Lamanites attempt to encircle them about by night, but in these attempts they did lose many prisoners.
And many times did they attempt to administer of their wine to the Nephites, that they might destroy them with poison or with drunkenness.
But behold, the Nephites were not slow to aremember the Lord their God in this their time of affliction.
They could not be taken in their snares; yea, they would not partake of their wine, save they had first given to some of the Lamanite prisoners.
And they were thus cautious that no poison should be administered among them; for if their wine would poison a Lamanite it would also poison a Nephite; and thus they did try all their liquors.
And now it came to pass that it was expedient for Moroni to make preparations to attack the city aMorianton; for behold, the Lamanites had, by their labors, fortified the city Morianton until it had become an exceeding stronghold.
And they were continually bringing new forces into that city, and also new supplies of provisions.
And thus ended the twenty and ninth year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi.
 And now it came to pass in the commencement of the thirtieth year of the reign of the judges, on the second day in the first month, aMoroni received an bepistle from Helaman, stating the affairs of the people in cthat quarter of the land.
And these are the words which he wrote, saying: My dearly beloved brother, Moroni, as well in the Lord as in the tribulations of our warfare; behold, my beloved brother, I have somewhat to tell you concerning our warfare in this part of the land.
Behold, atwo thousand of the sons of those men whom Ammon brought down out of the land of Nephi—now ye have known that these were descendants of Laman, who was the eldest son of our father Lehi; Now I need not rehearse unto you concerning their traditions or their unbelief, for thou knowest concerning all these things— Therefore it sufficeth me that I tell you that two thousand of these young men have taken their weapons of war, and would that I should be their leader; and we have come forth to defend our country.
And now ye also know concerning the acovenant which their fathers made, that they would not take up their weapons of war against their brethren to shed blood.
But in the twenty and sixth year, when they saw our afflictions and our tribulations for them, they were about to abreak the covenant which they had made and take up their weapons of war in our defence.
But I would not suffer them that they should break this acovenant which they had made, supposing that God would strengthen us, insomuch that we should not suffer more because of the fulfilling the boath which they had taken.
But behold, here is one thing in which we may have great joy.
For behold, in the twenty and sixth year, I, Helaman, did march at the head of these atwo thousand young men to the city of bJudea, to assist Antipus, whom ye had appointed a leader over the people of that part of the land.
And I did join my two thousand asons, (for they are worthy to be called sons) to the army of Antipus, in which strength Antipus did rejoice exceedingly; for behold, his army had been reduced by the Lamanites because their forces had slain a vast number of our men, for which cause we have to mourn.
Nevertheless, we may console ourselves in this point, that they have died in the cause of their country and of their God, yea, and they are ahappy.
And the Lamanites had also retained many prisoners, all of whom are chief acaptains, for none other have they spared alive.
And we suppose that they are now at this time in the land of Nephi; it is so if they are not slain.
And now these are the cities of which the Lamanites have obtained possession by the shedding of the blood of so many of our valiant men: The land of aManti, or the city of Manti, and the city of Zeezrom, and the city of bCumeni, and the city of Antiparah.
And these are the cities which they possessed when I arrived at the city of Judea; and I found Antipus and his men toiling with their might to fortify the city.
Yea, and they were depressed in body as well as in spirit, for they had fought valiantly by day and toiled by night to maintain their cities; and thus they had suffered great afflictions of every kind.
And now they were determined to conquer in this place or die; therefore you may well suppose that this little force which I brought with me, yea, those asons of mine, gave them great hopes and much joy.
And now it came to pass that when the Lamanites saw that Antipus had received a greater strength to his army, they were compelled by the orders of Ammoron to not come against the city of Judea, or against us, to battle.
And thus were we favored of the Lord; for had they come upon us in this our weakness they might have perhaps destroyed our little army; but thus were we preserved.
They were commanded by Ammoron to maintain those cities which they had taken.
And thus ended the twenty and sixth year.
And in the commencement of the twenty and seventh year we had prepared our city and ourselves for defence.
Now we were desirous that the Lamanites should come upon us; for we were not desirous to make an attack upon them in their strongholds.
And it came to pass that we kept spies out round about, to watch the movements of the Lamanites, that they might not pass us by night nor by day to make an attack upon our other cities which were on the northward.
For we knew in those cities they were not sufficiently strong to meet them; therefore we were desirous, if they should pass by us, to fall upon them in their rear, and thus bring them up in the rear at the same time they were met in the front.
We supposed that we could overpower them; but behold, we were disappointed in this our desire.
They durst not pass by us with their whole army, neither durst they with a part, lest they should not be sufficiently strong and they should fall.
Neither durst they march down against the city of Zarahemla; neither durst they cross the head of Sidon, over to the city of Nephihah.
And thus, with their forces, they were determined to maintain those cities which they had taken.
And now it came to pass in the second month of this year, there was brought unto us many provisions from the fathers of those my two thousand sons.
And also there were sent two thousand men unto us from the land of Zarahemla.
And thus we were prepared with ten thousand men, and provisions for them, and also for their wives and their children.
And the Lamanites, thus seeing our forces increase daily, and provisions arrive for our support, they began to be fearful, and began to sally forth, if it were possible to put an end to our receiving provisions and strength.
Now when we saw that the Lamanites began to grow uneasy on this wise, we were desirous to bring a stratagem into effect upon them; therefore Antipus ordered that I should march forth with my little sons to a neighboring city, aas if we were carrying provisions to a neighboring city.
And we were to march near the city of Antiparah, as if we were going to the city beyond, in the borders by the seashore.
And it came to pass that we did march forth, as if with our provisions, to go to that city.
And it came to pass that Antipus did march forth with a part of his army, leaving the remainder to maintain the city.
But he did not march forth until I had gone forth with my little army, and came near the city Antiparah.
And now, in the city Antiparah were stationed the strongest army of the Lamanites; yea, the most numerous.
And it came to pass that when they had been informed by their spies, they came forth with their army and marched against us.
And it came to pass that we did flee before them, northward.
And thus we did lead away the most powerful army of the Lamanites; Yea, even to a considerable distance, insomuch that when they saw the army of Antipus pursuing them, with their might, they did not turn to the right nor to the left, but pursued their march in a straight course after us; and, as we suppose, it was their intent to slay us before Antipus should overtake them, and this that they might not be surrounded by our people.
And now Antipus, beholding our danger, did speed the march of his army.
But behold, it was night; therefore they did not overtake us, neither did Antipus overtake them; therefore we did camp for the night.
And it came to pass that before the dawn of the morning, behold, the Lamanites were pursuing us.
Now we were not sufficiently strong to contend with them; yea, I would not suffer that my little sons should fall into their hands; therefore we did continue our march, and we took our march into the wilderness.
Now they durst not turn to the right nor to the left lest they should be surrounded; neither would I turn to the right nor to the left lest they should overtake me, and we could not stand against them, but be slain, and they would make their escape; and thus we did flee all that day into the wilderness, even until it was dark.
And it came to pass that again, when the light of the morning came we saw the Lamanites upon us, and we did flee before them.
But it came to pass that they did not pursue us far before they halted; and it was in the morning of the third day of the seventh month.
And now, whether they were overtaken by Antipus we knew not, but I said unto my men: Behold, we know not but they have halted for the purpose that we should come against them, that they might catch us in their snare; Therefore what say ye, my sons, will ye go against them to battle?
And now I say unto you, my beloved brother Moroni, that never had I seen aso great bcourage, nay, not amongst all the Nephites.
For as I had ever called them my sons (for they were all of them very young) even so they said unto me: Father, behold our God is with us, and he will anot suffer that we should fall; then let us go forth; we would not slay our brethren if they would let us alone; therefore let us go, lest they should overpower the army of Antipus.
Now they never had fought, yet they did not fear death; and they did think more upon the aliberty of their bfathers than they did upon their lives; yea, they had been taught by their cmothers, that if they did not doubt, God would deliver them.
And they rehearsed unto me the words of their amothers, saying: We bdo not doubt our mothers knew it.
And it came to pass that I did return with my two thousand against these Lamanites who had pursued us.
And now behold, the armies of Antipus had overtaken them, and a terrible battle had commenced.
The army of Antipus being weary, because of their long march in so short a space of time, were about to fall into the hands of the Lamanites; and had I not returned with my two thousand they would have obtained their purpose.
For Antipus had fallen by the sword, and many of his leaders, because of their weariness, which was occasioned by the speed of their march—therefore the men of Antipus, being confused because of the fall of their leaders, began to give way before the Lamanites.
And it came to pass that the Lamanites took courage, and began to pursue them; and thus were the Lamanites pursuing them with great vigor when aHelaman came upon their rear with his two thousand, and began to slay them exceedingly, insomuch that the whole army of the Lamanites halted and turned upon Helaman.
Now when the people of Antipus saw that the Lamanites had turned them about, they gathered together their men and came again upon the rear of the Lamanites.
And now it came to pass that we, the people of Nephi, the people of Antipus, and I with my two thousand, did surround the Lamanites, and did slay them; yea, insomuch that they were compelled to deliver up their weapons of war and also themselves as prisoners of war.
And now it came to pass that when they had surrendered themselves up unto us, behold, I numbered those young men who had fought with me, fearing lest there were many of them slain.
But behold, to my great joy, there had anot one soul of them fallen to the earth; yea, and they had fought as if with the bstrength of God; yea, never were men known to have fought with such miraculous strength; and with such mighty power did they fall upon the Lamanites, that they did frighten them; and for this cause did the Lamanites deliver themselves up as prisoners of war.
And as we had no place for our prisoners, that we could guard them to keep them from the armies of the Lamanites, therefore we sent them to the land of Zarahemla, and a part of those men who were not slain of Antipus, with them; and the remainder I took and joined them to my stripling aAmmonites, and took our march back to the city of Judea.
 And now it came to pass that I received an epistle from Ammoron, the king, stating that if I would deliver up those prisoners of war whom we had taken that he would deliver up the city of Antiparah unto us.
But I sent an epistle unto the king, that we were sure our forces were sufficient to take the city of Antiparah by our force; and by delivering up the prisoners for that city we should suppose ourselves unwise, and that we would only deliver up our prisoners on exchange.
And Ammoron refused mine epistle, for he would not exchange prisoners; therefore we began to make preparations to go against the city of Antiparah.
But the people of Antiparah did leave the city, and fled to their other cities, which they had possession of, to fortify them; and thus the city of Antiparah fell into our hands.
And thus ended the twenty and eighth year of the reign of the judges.
And it came to pass that in the commencement of the twenty and ninth year, we received a supply of provisions, and also an addition to our army, from the land of Zarahemla, and from the land round about, to the number of six thousand men, besides sixty of the asons of the Ammonites who had come to join their brethren, my little band of two thousand.
And now behold, we were strong, yea, and we had also plenty of provisions brought unto us.
And it came to pass that it was our desire to wage a battle with the army which was placed to protect the city aCumeni.
And now behold, I will show unto you that we soon accomplished our desire; yea, with our strong force, or with a part of our strong force, we did surround, by night, the city Cumeni, a little before they were to receive a supply of provisions.
And it came to pass that we did camp round about the city for many nights; but we did sleep upon our swords, and keep guards, that the Lamanites could not come upon us by night and slay us, which they attempted many times; but as many times as they attempted this their blood was spilt.
At length their provisions did arrive, and they were about to enter the city by night.
And we, instead of being Lamanites, were Nephites; therefore, we did take them and their provisions.
And notwithstanding the Lamanites being cut off from their support after this manner, they were still determined to maintain the city; therefore it became expedient that we should take those provisions and send them to aJudea, and our prisoners to the land of Zarahemla.
And it came to pass that not many days had passed away before the Lamanites began to lose all hopes of succor; therefore they yielded up the city unto our hands; and thus we had accomplished our designs in obtaining the city Cumeni.
But it came to pass that our prisoners were so numerous that, notwithstanding the enormity of our numbers, we were obliged to employ all our force to keep them, or to put them to death.
For behold, they would break out in great numbers, and would fight with stones, and with clubs, or whatsoever thing they could get into their hands, insomuch that we did slay upwards of two thousand of them after they had surrendered themselves prisoners of war.
Therefore it became expedient for us, that we should put an end to their lives, or guard them, sword in hand, down to the land of Zarahemla; and also our provisions were not any more than sufficient for our own people, notwithstanding that which we had taken from the Lamanites.
And now, in those critical circumstances, it became a very serious matter to determine concerning these prisoners of war; nevertheless, we did resolve to send them down to the land of Zarahemla; therefore we selected a part of our men, and gave them charge over our prisoners to go down to the land of Zarahemla.
But it came to pass that on the morrow they did return.
And now behold, we did not ainquire of them concerning the prisoners; for behold, the Lamanites were upon us, and they returned in season to save us from falling into their hands.
For behold, Ammoron had sent to their support a new supply of provisions and also a numerous army of men.
And it came to pass that those men whom we sent with the prisoners did arrive in season to check them, as they were about to overpower us.
But behold, my little band of two thousand and sixty fought most desperately; yea, they were firm before the Lamanites, and did aadminister death unto all those who opposed them.
And as the remainder of our army were about to give way before the Lamanites, behold, those two thousand and sixty were firm and undaunted.
Yea, and they did aobey and observe to perform every word of command with exactness; yea, and even according to their faith it was done unto them; and I did remember the words which they said unto me that their bmothers had taught them.
And now behold, it was these my sons, and those men who had been selected to convey the prisoners, to whom we owe this great victory; for it was they who did beat the Lamanites; therefore they were driven back to the city of Manti.
And we retained our city Cumeni, and were not all destroyed by the sword; nevertheless, we had suffered great loss.
And it came to pass that after the Lamanites had fled, I immediately gave orders that my men who had been wounded should be taken from among the dead, and caused that their wounds should be dressed.
And it came to pass that there were two hundred, out of my two thousand and sixty, who had fainted because of the loss of blood; nevertheless, according to the goodness of God, and to our great astonishment, and also the joy of our whole army, there was anot one soul of them who did perish; yea, and neither was there one soul among them who had not received many wounds.
And now, their apreservation was astonishing to our whole army, yea, that they should be spared while there was a thousand of our brethren who were slain.
And we do justly ascribe it to the miraculous bpower of God, because of their exceeding cfaith in that which they had been taught to believe—that there was a just God, and whosoever did not doubt, that they should be preserved by his marvelous power.
Now this was the afaith of these of whom I have spoken; they are young, and their minds are bfirm, and they do put their trust in God continually.
And now it came to pass that after we had thus taken care of our wounded men, and had buried our dead and also the dead of the Lamanites, who were many, behold, we did inquire of Gid concerning the aprisoners whom they had started to go down to the land of Zarahemla with.
Now Gid was the chief captain over the band who was appointed to guard them down to the land.
And now, these are the words which Gid said unto me: Behold, we did start to go down to the land of Zarahemla with our prisoners.
And it came to pass that we did meet the spies of our armies, who had been sent out to watch the camp of the Lamanites.
And they cried unto us, saying—Behold, the armies of the Lamanites are marching towards the city of Cumeni; and behold, they will fall upon them, yea, and will destroy our people.
And it came to pass that our prisoners did hear their cries, which caused them to take courage; and they did rise up in rebellion against us.
And it came to pass because of their rebellion we did cause that our swords should come upon them.
And it came to pass that they did in a body run upon our swords, in the which, the greater number of them were slain; and the remainder of them broke through and fled from us.
And behold, when they had fled and we could not overtake them, we took our march with speed towards the city Cumeni; and behold, we did arrive in time that we might assist our brethren in preserving the city.
And behold, we are again delivered out of the hands of our enemies.
And blessed is the name of our God; for behold, it is he that has delivered us; yea, that has done this great thing for us.
Now it came to pass that when I, Helaman, had heard these words of Gid, I was filled with exceeding joy because of the goodness of God in preserving us, that we might not all perish; yea, and I trust that the souls of them who have been slain have aentered into the rest of their God.
 And behold, now it came to pass that our next object was to obtain the city of Manti; but behold, there was no way that we could lead them out of the city by our small bands.
For behold, they remembered that which we had hitherto done; therefore we could not adecoy them away from their strongholds.
And they were so much more numerous than was our army that we durst not go forth and attack them in their strongholds.
Yea, and it became expedient that we should employ our men to the maintaining those parts of the land which we had regained of our possessions; therefore it became expedient that we should wait, that we might receive more strength from the land of Zarahemla and also a new supply of provisions.
And it came to pass that I thus did send an embassy to the governor of our land, to acquaint him concerning the affairs of our people.
And it came to pass that we did wait to receive provisions and strength from the land of Zarahemla.
But behold, this did profit us but little; for the Lamanites were also receiving great strength from day to day, and also many provisions; and thus were our circumstances at this period of time.
And the Lamanites were sallying forth against us from time to time, resolving by stratagem to destroy us; nevertheless we could not come to battle with them, because of their aretreats and their strongholds.
And it came to pass that we did wait in these difficult circumstances for the space of many months, even until we were about to aperish for the want of food.
But it came to pass that we did receive food, which was guarded to us by an army of two thousand men to our assistance; and this is all the assistance which we did receive, to defend ourselves and our country from falling into the hands of our enemies, yea, to contend with an enemy which was innumerable.
And now the cause of these our embarrassments, or the cause why they did not send more strength unto us, we knew not; therefore we were grieved and also filled with fear, lest by any means the judgments of God should come upon our land, to our overthrow and utter destruction.
Therefore we did pour out our souls in prayer to God, that he would strengthen us and deliver us out of the hands of our enemies, yea, and also give us strength that we might retain our cities, and our lands, and our possessions, for the support of our people.
Yea, and it came to pass that the Lord our God did visit us with assurances that he would deliver us; yea, insomuch that he did speak peace to our souls, and did grant unto us great faith, and did cause us that we should hope for our adeliverance in him.
And we did take courage with our small force which we had received, and were fixed with a determination to conquer our enemies, and to amaintain our lands, and our possessions, and our wives, and our children, and the cause of our bliberty.
And thus we did go forth with all our might against the Lamanites, who were in the city of Manti; and we did pitch our tents by the wilderness side, which was near to the city.
And it came to pass that on the morrow, that when the Lamanites saw that we were in the borders by the wilderness which was near the city, that they sent out their spies round about us that they might discover the number and the strength of our army.
And it came to pass that when they saw that we were not strong, according to our numbers, and fearing that we should cut them off from their support except they should come out to battle against us and kill us, and also supposing that they could easily destroy us with their numerous hosts, therefore they began to make preparations to come out against us to battle.
And when we saw that they were making preparations to come out against us, behold, I caused that Gid, with a small number of men, should asecrete himself in the wilderness, and also that Teomner and a small number of men should secrete themselves also in the wilderness.
Now Gid and his men were on the right and the others on the left; and when they had thus secreted themselves, behold, I remained, with the remainder of my army, in that same place where we had first pitched our tents against the time that the Lamanites should come out to battle.
And it came to pass that the Lamanites did come out with their numerous army against us.
And when they had come and were about to fall upon us with the sword, I caused that my men, those who were with me, should retreat into the wilderness.
And it came to pass that the Lamanites did follow after us with great speed, for they were exceedingly desirous to overtake us that they might slay us; therefore they did follow us into the wilderness; and we did pass by in the midst of Gid and Teomner, insomuch that they were not discovered by the Lamanites.
And it came to pass that when the Lamanites had passed by, or when the army had passed by, Gid and Teomner did rise up from their secret places, and did cut off the spies of the Lamanites that they should not return to the city.
And it came to pass that when they had cut them off, they ran to the city and fell upon the guards who were left to guard the city, insomuch that they did destroy them and did take possession of the city.
Now this was done because the Lamanites did suffer their whole army, save a few guards only, to be led away into the wilderness.
And it came to pass that Gid and Teomner by this means had obtained possession of their strongholds.
And it came to pass that we took our course, after having traveled much in the wilderness towards the land of Zarahemla.
And when the Lamanites saw that they were marching towards the land of Zarahemla, they were exceedingly afraid, lest there was a plan laid to lead them on to destruction; therefore they began to retreat into the wilderness again, yea, even back by the same way which they had come.
And behold, it was night and they did pitch their tents, for the chief acaptains of the Lamanites had supposed that the Nephites were weary because of their march; and supposing that they had driven their whole army therefore they took no thought concerning the city of Manti.
Now it came to pass that when it was night, I caused that my men should not sleep, but that they should march forward by another way towards the land of Manti.
And because of this our march in the night-time, behold, on the morrow we were beyond the Lamanites, insomuch that we did arrive before them at the city of Manti.
And thus it came to pass, that by this stratagem we did take possession of the city of Manti without the shedding of blood.
And it came to pass that when the armies of the Lamanites did arrive near the city, and saw that we were prepared to meet them, they were astonished exceedingly and struck with great fear, insomuch that they did aflee into the wilderness.
Yea, and it came to pass that the armies of the Lamanites did flee out of all this quarter of the land.
But behold, they have carried with them many women and children out of the land.
And athose cities which had been taken by the Lamanites, all of them are at this period of time in our possession; and our fathers and our women and our children are returning to their homes, all save it be those who have been taken prisoners and carried off by the Lamanites.
But behold, our armies are small to maintain so great a number of cities and so great possessions.
But behold, we atrust in our God who has given us victory over those lands, insomuch that we have obtained those cities and those lands, which were our own.
Now we do not know the acause that the government does not grant us more strength; neither do those men who came up unto us know why we have not received greater strength.
Behold, we do not know but what aye are unsuccessful, and ye have drawn away the forces into that quarter of the land; if so, we do not desire to murmur.
And if it is not so, behold, we fear that there is some afaction in the government, that they do not send more men to our assistance; for we know that they are more numerous than that which they have sent.
But, behold, it mattereth not—we trust God will adeliver us, notwithstanding the weakness of our armies, yea, and deliver us out of the hands of our enemies.
Behold, this is the twenty and ninth year, in the latter end, and we are in the possession of our lands; and the Lamanites have fled to the land of Nephi.
And those sons of the people of Ammon, of whom I have so highly spoken, are with me in the city of Manti; and the Lord has supported them, yea, and kept them from falling by the sword, insomuch that even aone soul has not been slain.
But behold, they have received many wounds; nevertheless they astand fast in that bliberty wherewith God has made them free; and they are strict to remember the Lord their God from day to day; yea, they do observe to keep his statutes, and his judgments, and his commandments continually; and their faith is strong in the prophecies concerning that which is to come.
And now, my beloved brother, Moroni, may the Lord our God, who has redeemed us and made us free, keep you continually in his presence; yea, and may he favor this people, even that ye may have success in obtaining the possession of all that which the Lamanites have taken from us, which was for our support.
And now, behold, I close mine epistle.
I am Helaman, the son of Alma.
 Now it came to pass in the thirtieth year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi, after Moroni had received and had read Helaman’s aepistle, he was exceedingly rejoiced because of the welfare, yea, the exceeding success which Helaman had had, in obtaining bthose lands which were lost.
Yea, and he did make it known unto all his people, in all the land round about in that part where he was, that they might rejoice also.
And it came to pass that he immediately sent aan epistle to bPahoran, desiring that he should cause men to be gathered together to strengthen Helaman, or the armies of Helaman, insomuch that he might with ease maintain that part of the land which he had been so miraculously prospered in regaining.
And it came to pass when Moroni had sent this epistle to the land of Zarahemla, he began again to lay a plan that he might obtain the remainder of those possessions and cities which the Lamanites had taken from them.
And it came to pass that while Moroni was thus making preparations to go against the Lamanites to battle, behold, the people of aNephihah, who were gathered together from the city of Moroni and the city of Lehi and the city of Morianton, were attacked by the Lamanites.
Yea, even those who had been acompelled to flee from the land of Manti, and from the land round about, had come over and joined the Lamanites in this part of the land.
And thus being exceedingly numerous, yea, and receiving strength from day to day, by the command of Ammoron they came forth against the people of Nephihah, and they did begin to slay them with an exceedingly great slaughter.
And their armies were so numerous that the remainder of the people of aNephihah were bobliged to flee before them; and they came even and joined the army of Moroni.
And now as Moroni had supposed that there ashould be men sent to the city of Nephihah, to the assistance of the people to maintain that city, and knowing that it was easier to keep the city from falling into the hands of the Lamanites than to retake it from them, he supposed that they would easily maintain that city.
Therefore he retained all his force to maintain those places which he had recovered.
And now, when Moroni saw that the city of Nephihah was alost he was exceedingly sorrowful, and began to doubt, because of the wickedness of the people, whether they should not fall into the hands of their brethren.
Now this was the case with all his chief captains.
They doubted and marveled also because of the wickedness of the people, and this because of the success of the Lamanites over them.
And it came to pass that Moroni was angry with the government, because of their aindifference concerning the freedom of their country.
 And now it came to pass that after Alma had made an end of speaking unto the people of the church, which was established in the city of Zarahemla, he aordained bpriests and elders, by laying on his chands according to the order of God, to preside and dwatch over the church.
And it came to pass that whosoever did not belong to the church who arepented of their sins were baptized unto repentance, and were received into the church.
And it also came to pass that whosoever did belong to the church that did not arepent of their wickedness and humble themselves before God—I mean those who were lifted up in the bpride of their hearts—the same were rejected, and their names were cblotted out, that their names were not numbered among those of the righteous.
And thus they began to establish the order of the church in the acity of Zarahemla.
Now I would that ye should understand that the word of God was liberal unto all, that none were deprived of the privilege of assembling themselves together to hear the word of God.
Nevertheless the children of God were commanded that they should gather themselves together oft, and join in afasting and mighty prayer in behalf of the welfare of the souls of those who knew not God.
And now it came to pass that when Alma had made these regulations he departed from them, yea, from the church which was in the city of Zarahemla, and went over upon the east of the ariver Sidon, into the bvalley of Gideon, there having been a city built, which was called the city of Gideon, which was in the valley that was called Gideon, being called after the man who was cslain by the hand of Nehor with the sword.
And Alma went and began to declare the word of God unto the church which was established in the valley of Gideon, according to the revelation of the truth of the word which had been spoken by his fathers, and according to the spirit of prophecy which was in him, according to the atestimony of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, who should come to redeem his people from their sins, and the holy order by which he was called.
And thus it is written.
Amen.
 And it came to pass that he wrote aagain to the governor of the land, who was Pahoran, and these are the words which he wrote, saying: Behold, I direct mine epistle to Pahoran, in the city of Zarahemla, who is the chief judge and the bgovernor over the land, and also to all those who have been chosen by this people to govern and manage the affairs of this war.
For behold, I have somewhat to say unto them by the way of acondemnation; for behold, ye yourselves know that ye have been appointed to gather together men, and arm them with swords, and with cimeters, and all manner of weapons of war of every kind, and send forth against the Lamanites, in whatsoever parts they should come into our land.
And now behold, I say unto you that myself, and also my men, and also Helaman and his men, have suffered exceedingly great asufferings; yea, even hunger, thirst, and fatigue, and all manner of afflictions of every kind.
But behold, were this all we had suffered we would not murmur nor complain.
But behold, great has been the slaughter among our people; yea, thousands have fallen by the sword, while it might have otherwise been if ye had rendered unto our armies sufficient strength and succor for them.
Yea, great has been your neglect towards us.
And now behold, we desire to know the cause of this exceedingly great neglect; yea, we desire to know the cause of your thoughtless state.
Can you think to sit upon your thrones in a state of thoughtless astupor, while your enemies are spreading the work of death around you?
Yea, while they are murdering thousands of your brethren— Yea, even they who have looked up to you for protection, yea, have placed you in a situation that ye might have succored them, yea, ye might have sent armies unto them, to have strengthened them, and have saved thousands of them from falling by the sword.
But behold, this is not all—ye have withheld your provisions from them, insomuch that many have fought and bled out their lives because of their great desires which they had for the welfare of this people; yea, and this they have done when they were about to aperish with hunger, because of your exceedingly great neglect towards them.
And now, my beloved brethren—for ye ought to be beloved; yea, and ye ought to have stirred yourselves more diligently for the welfare and the freedom of this people; but behold, ye have neglected them insomuch that the blood of thousands shall come upon your heads for vengeance; yea, for aknown unto God were all their cries, and all their sufferings— Behold, could ye suppose that ye could sit upon your thrones, and because of the exceeding goodness of God ye could do nothing and he would deliver you?
Behold, if ye have supposed this ye have supposed in vain.
Do ye asuppose that, because so many of your brethren have been killed it is because of their wickedness?
I say unto you, if ye have supposed this ye have supposed in vain; for I say unto you, there are many who have fallen by the sword; and behold it is to your condemnation; For the Lord suffereth the arighteous to be slain that his justice and bjudgment may come upon the wicked; therefore ye need not suppose that the righteous are lost because they are slain; but behold, they do enter into the rest of the Lord their God.
And now behold, I say unto you, I fear exceedingly that the judgments of God will come upon this people, because of their exceeding aslothfulness, yea, even the slothfulness of our government, and their exceedingly great neglect towards their brethren, yea, towards those who have been slain.
For were it not for the wickedness which first commenced at our head, we acould have withstood our enemies that they could have gained no power over us.
Yea, had it not been for the war which broke out aamong ourselves; yea, were it not for these bking-men, who caused so much bloodshed among ourselves; yea, at the time we were contending among ourselves, if we had united our strength as we hitherto have done; yea, had it not been for the desire of power and authority which those king-men had over us; had they been true to the cause of our freedom, and united with us, and gone forth against our enemies, instead of taking up their swords against us, which was the cause of so much bloodshed among ourselves; yea, if we had gone forth against them in the strength of the Lord, we should have dispersed our enemies, for it would have been done, according to the cfulfilling of his word.
But behold, now the Lamanites are coming upon us, taking apossession of our lands, and they are murdering our people with the sword, yea, our women and our children, and also carrying them away captive, causing them that they should suffer all manner of afflictions, and this because of the great wickedness of those who are seeking for power and authority, yea, even those king-men.
But why should I say much concerning this matter?
For we know not but what ye yourselves are seeking for authority.
We know not but what ye are also atraitors to your country.
Or is it that ye have neglected us because ye are in the heart of our country and ye are asurrounded by security, that ye do not cause food to be sent unto us, and also men to strengthen our armies?
Have ye forgotten the commandments of the Lord your God?
Yea, have ye forgotten the captivity of our fathers?
Have ye forgotten the many times we have been delivered out of the hands of our enemies?
Or do ye suppose that the Lord awill still deliver us, while we sit upon our thrones and do not make use of the means which the Lord has provided for us?
Yea, will ye sit in idleness while ye are surrounded with thousands of those, yea, and tens of thousands, who do also sit in idleness, while there are thousands round about in the borders of the land who are falling by the sword, yea, wounded and bleeding?
Do ye suppose that God will look upon you as guiltless while ye sit still and behold these things?
Behold I say unto you, Nay.
Now I would that ye should remember that God has said that the ainward vessel shall be bcleansed first, and then shall the outer vessel be cleansed also.
And now, except ye do repent of that which ye have done, and begin to be up and doing, and send forth food and men unto us, and also unto Helaman, that he may support those parts of our country which he has regained, and that we may also recover the remainder of our possessions in these parts, behold it will be expedient that we contend no more with the Lamanites until we have first cleansed our inward vessel, yea, even the great head of our government.
And except ye grant mine epistle, and come out and show unto me a true aspirit of freedom, and strive to strengthen and fortify our armies, and grant unto them food for their support, behold I will leave a part of my freemen to maintain this part of our land, and I will leave the strength and the blessings of God upon them, that none other power can operate against them— And this because of their exceeding faith, and their patience in their atribulations— And I will come unto you, and if there be any among you that has a desire for freedom, yea, if there be even a spark of freedom remaining, behold I will stir up insurrections among you, even until those who have desires to usurp power and authority shall become extinct.
Yea, behold I do not fear your power nor your authority, but it is my aGod whom I fear; and it is according to his commandments that I do take my sword to defend the cause of my country, and it is because of your iniquity that we have suffered so much loss.
Behold it is time, yea, the time is now at hand, that except ye do bestir yourselves in the defence of your country and your little ones, the asword of justice doth hang over you; yea, and it shall fall upon you and visit you even to your utter destruction.
Behold, I wait for assistance from you; and, except ye do administer unto our relief, behold, I come unto you, even in the land of Zarahemla, and smite you with the sword, insomuch that ye can have no more power to impede the progress of this people in the cause of our freedom.
For behold, the Lord will not suffer that ye shall live and wax strong in your iniquities to destroy his righteous people.
Behold, can you suppose that the Lord will spare you and come out in judgment against the Lamanites, when it is the atradition of their fathers that has caused their hatred, yea, and it has been redoubled by those who have dissented from us, while your iniquity is for the cause of your love of glory and the vain things of the world?
Ye know that ye do transgress the laws of God, and ye do know that ye do trample them under your feet.
Behold, the Lord saith unto me: If those whom ye have appointed your governors do not repent of their sins and ainiquities, ye shall bgo up to battle against them.
And now behold, I, Moroni, am constrained, according to the covenant which I have made to keep the commandments of my God; therefore I would that ye should adhere to the word of God, and send speedily unto me of your provisions and of your men, and also to Helaman.
And behold, if ye will not do this I come unto you speedily; for behold, God will not suffer that we should perish with hunger; therefore he will give unto us of your food, even if it must be by the sword.
Now see that ye fulfil the word of God.
Behold, I am Moroni, your chief captain.
I aseek not for power, but to pull it down.
I bseek not for honor of the world, but for the glory of my God, and the freedom and welfare of my country.
And thus I close mine epistle.
 Behold, now it came to pass that soon after Moroni had sent his epistle unto the chief governor, he received an epistle from aPahoran, the chief governor.
And these are the words which he received: I, Pahoran, who am the chief governor of this land, do send these words unto Moroni, the chief captain over the army.
Behold, I say unto you, Moroni, that I do not joy in your great aafflictions, yea, it grieves my soul.
But behold, there are those who do joy in your afflictions, yea, insomuch that they have risen up in arebellion against me, and also those of my people who are bfreemen, yea, and those who have risen up are exceedingly numerous.
And it is those who have sought to take away the judgment-seat from me that have been the cause of this great iniquity; for they have used great aflattery, and they have bled away the hearts of many people, which will be the cause of sore affliction among us; they have withheld our provisions, and have daunted our cfreemen that they have not come unto you.
And behold, they have driven me out before them, and I have fled to the land of Gideon, with as many men as it were possible that I could get.
And behold, I have sent a proclamation throughout this part of the land; and behold, they are aflocking to us bdaily, to their arms, in the defence of their country and their cfreedom, and to avenge our dwrongs.
And they have come unto us, insomuch that those who have risen up in rebellion against us are set at defiance, yea, insomuch that they do fear us and durst not come out against us to battle.
They have agot possession of the land, or the city, of Zarahemla; they have appointed a bking over them, and he hath written unto the king of the Lamanites, in the which he hath joined an alliance with him; in the which alliance he hath agreed to maintain the city of Zarahemla, which maintenance he supposeth will enable the Lamanites to conquer the remainder of the land, and he shall be placed king over this people when they shall be conquered cunder the Lamanites.
And now, in your epistle you have acensured me, but it mattereth not; I am not angry, but do rejoice in the greatness of your heart.
I, Pahoran, do not bseek for power, save only to retain my judgment-seat that I may preserve the rights and the liberty of my people.
My soul standeth fast in that liberty in the which God hath made us cfree.
And now, behold, we will resist wickedness even unto bloodshed.
We would anot shed the blood of the Lamanites if they would stay in their own land.
We would not shed the blood of our brethren if they would not rise up in rebellion and take the sword against us.
We would subject ourselves to the ayoke of bondage if it were requisite with the justice of God, or if he should command us so to do.
But behold he doth not command us that we shall subject ourselves to our enemies, but that we should put our atrust in him, and he will deliver us.
Therefore, my beloved brother, Moroni, let us resist evil, and whatsoever evil we cannot resist with our awords, yea, such as rebellions and dissensions, let us bresist them with our swords, that we may retain our freedom, that we may rejoice in the great privilege of our church, and in the cause of our Redeemer and our God.
Therefore, come unto me speedily with a few of your men, and leave the remainder in the charge of Lehi and Teancum; give unto them power to conduct the awar in that part of the land, according to the bSpirit of God, which is also the cspirit of freedom which is in them.
Behold I have sent a few provisions unto them, that they may not perish until ye can come unto me.
Gather together whatsoever force ye can upon your march hither, and we will go speedily against those dissenters, in the strength of our God according to the faith which is in us.
And we will atake possession of the city of Zarahemla, that we may obtain more food to send forth unto Lehi and Teancum; yea, we will go forth against them in the strength of the Lord, and we will put an end to this great iniquity.
And now, Moroni, I do joy in receiving your epistle, for I was somewhat worried concerning what we should do, whether it should be just in us to go against our brethren.
But ye have said, except they repent the Lord ahath commanded you that ye should go against them.
See that ye astrengthen Lehi and Teancum in the Lord; tell them to fear not, for God will deliver them, yea, and also all those who bstand fast in that liberty wherewith God hath made them free.
And now I close mine epistle to my beloved brother, Moroni.
 And now it came to pass that when Moroni had received this epistle his heart did take courage, and was filled with exceedingly great joy because of the faithfulness of Pahoran, that he was not also a atraitor to the freedom and cause of his country.
But he did also mourn exceedingly because of the iniquity of those who had driven Pahoran from the judgment-seat, yea, in fine because of those who had rebelled against their country and also their God.
And it came to pass that Moroni took a small number of men, according to the desire of Pahoran, and gave Lehi and Teancum command over the remainder of his army, and took his march towards the land of Gideon.
And he did raise the astandard of bliberty in whatsoever place he did enter, and gained whatsoever force he could in all his march towards the land of Gideon.
And it came to pass that thousands did aflock unto his standard, and did take up their swords in the defence of their freedom, that they might not come into bondage.
And thus, when Moroni had gathered together whatsoever men he could in all his march, he came to the land of Gideon; and uniting his forces with those of Pahoran they became exceedingly strong, even stronger than the men of Pachus, who was the aking of those dissenters who had driven the bfreemen out of the land of Zarahemla and had taken possession of the land.
And it came to pass that Moroni and Pahoran went down with their armies into the land of Zarahemla, and went forth against the city, and did meet the men of Pachus, insomuch that they did come to battle.
And behold, Pachus was slain and his men were taken prisoners, and Pahoran was restored to his judgment-seat.
And the men of Pachus received their trial, according to the law, and also those king-men who had been taken and acast into prison; and they were bexecuted according to the law; yea, those men of Pachus and those cking-men, whosoever would not take up arms in the defence of their country, but would fight against it, were put to death.
And thus it became expedient that this law should be strictly observed for the safety of their country; yea, and whosoever was found denying their freedom was speedily aexecuted according to the law.
And thus ended the thirtieth year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi; Moroni and Pahoran having restored peace to the land of Zarahemla, among their own people, having ainflicted death upon all those who were not true to the cause of freedom.
And it came to pass in the commencement of the thirty and first year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi, Moroni immediately caused that provisions should be sent, and also an army of six thousand men should be sent unto Helaman, to assist him in preserving that part of the land.
And he also caused that an army of six thousand men, with a sufficient quantity of food, should be sent to the armies of Lehi and Teancum.
And it came to pass that this was done to fortify the land against the Lamanites.
And it came to pass that Moroni and Pahoran, leaving a large body of men in the land of Zarahemla, took their march with a large body of men towards the land of Nephihah, being determined to aoverthrow the Lamanites in that city.
And it came to pass that as they were marching towards the land, they took a large body of men of the Lamanites, and slew many of them, and took their provisions and their weapons of war.
And it came to pass after they had taken them, they caused them to enter into a acovenant that they would no more take up their weapons of war against the Nephites.
And when they had entered into this covenant they sent them to adwell with the people of Ammon, and they were in number about four thousand who had not been slain.
And it came to pass that when they had sent them away they pursued their march towards the land of aNephihah.
And it came to pass that when they had come to the city of Nephihah, they did pitch their tents in the plains of Nephihah, which is near the city of Nephihah.
Now Moroni was desirous that the Lamanites should come out to battle against them, upon the plains; but the Lamanites, knowing of their exceedingly great courage, and beholding the greatness of their numbers, therefore they durst not come out against them; therefore they did not come to battle in that day.
And when the night came, Moroni went forth in the darkness of the night, and came upon the top of the wall to spy out in what part of the city the Lamanites did camp with their army.
And it came to pass that they were on the east, by the entrance; and they were all asleep.
And now Moroni returned to his army, and caused that they should prepare in haste strong cords and ladders, to be let down from the top of the awall into the inner part of the wall.
And it came to pass that Moroni caused that his men should march forth and come upon the top of the wall, and let athemselves down into that part of the city, yea, even on the west, where the Lamanites did not camp with their armies.
And it came to pass that they were all let down into the city by night, by the means of their strong cords and their ladders; thus when the morning came they were all within the walls of the city.
And now, when the Lamanites awoke and saw that the armies of Moroni were within the walls, they were affrighted exceedingly, insomuch that they did flee out by the pass.
And now when Moroni saw that they were fleeing before him, he did cause that his men should march forth against them, and slew many, and surrounded many others, and took them prisoners; and the remainder of them fled into the land of Moroni, which was in the borders by the seashore.
Thus had Moroni and Pahoran obtained the apossession of the city of Nephihah without the loss of one soul; and there were many of the Lamanites who were slain.
Now it came to pass that many of the Lamanites that were prisoners were desirous to ajoin the people of Ammon and become a free people.
And it came to pass that as many as were desirous, unto them it was granted according to their desires.
Therefore, all the prisoners of the Lamanites did join the people of Ammon, and did begin to labor exceedingly, tilling the ground, raising all manner of grain, and flocks and herds of every kind; and thus were the Nephites relieved from a great burden; yea, insomuch that they were relieved from all the prisoners of the Lamanites.
Now it came to pass that Moroni, after he had obtained possession of the city of Nephihah, having taken many prisoners, which did reduce the armies of the Lamanites exceedingly, and having regained many of the Nephites who had been taken prisoners, which did strengthen the army of Moroni exceedingly; therefore Moroni went forth from the land of Nephihah to the land of aLehi.
And it came to pass that when the Lamanites saw that Moroni was coming against them, they were again frightened and fled before the army of Moroni.
And it came to pass that aMoroni and his army did pursue them from city to city, until they were met by Lehi and Teancum; and the Lamanites fled from Lehi and Teancum, even down upon the borders by the seashore, until they came to the land of Moroni.
And the armies of the Lamanites were all gathered together, insomuch that they were all in one body in the land of Moroni.
Now Ammoron, the king of the Lamanites, was also with them.
And it came to pass that Moroni and Lehi and Teancum did encamp with their armies round about in the borders of the land of Moroni, insomuch that the Lamanites were encircled about in the borders by the wilderness on the south, and in the borders by the wilderness on the east.
And thus they did encamp for the night.
For behold, the Nephites and the Lamanites also were weary because of the greatness of the march; therefore they did not resolve upon any stratagem in the night-time, save it were Teancum; for he was exceedingly angry with Ammoron, insomuch that he considered that Ammoron, and Amalickiah his brother, had been the acause of this great and lasting war between them and the Lamanites, which had been the cause of so much war and bloodshed, yea, and so much famine.
And it came to pass that Teancum in his anger did go forth into the camp of the Lamanites, and did let himself down over the walls of the city.
And he went forth with a cord, from place to place, insomuch that he did find the king; and he did acast a javelin at him, which did pierce him near the heart.
But behold, the king did awaken his servants before he died, insomuch that they did pursue Teancum, and slew him.
Now it came to pass that when Lehi and Moroni knew that Teancum was dead they were exceedingly sorrowful; for behold, he had been a man who had afought valiantly for his country, yea, a true friend to liberty; and he had suffered very many exceedingly sore afflictions.
But behold, he was dead, and had gone the way of all the earth.
Now it came to pass that Moroni marched forth on the morrow, and came upon the Lamanites, insomuch that they did slay them with a great slaughter; and they did drive them out of the land; and they did flee, even that they did not return at that time against the Nephites.
And thus ended the thirty and first year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi; and thus they had had wars, and bloodsheds, and famine, and affliction, for the space of many years.
And there had been murders, and contentions, and dissensions, and all manner of iniquity among the people of Nephi; nevertheless for the arighteous’ sake, yea, because of the prayers of the righteous, they were spared.
But behold, because of the exceedingly great length of the war between the Nephites and the Lamanites many had become hardened, because of the exceedingly great length of the war; and many were softened because of their aafflictions, insomuch that they did humble themselves before God, even in the depth of humility.
And it came to pass that after Moroni had fortified those parts of the land which were most exposed to the Lamanites, until they were sufficiently strong, he returned to the city of Zarahemla; and also Helaman returned to the place of his inheritance; and there was once more peace established among the people of Nephi.
And Moroni yielded up the acommand of his armies into the hands of his son, whose name was bMoronihah; and he retired to his own house that he might spend the remainder of his days in peace.
And Pahoran did return to his judgment-seat; and Helaman did take upon him again to preach unto the people the word of God; for because of so many wars and contentions it had become expedient that a aregulation should be made again in the church.
Therefore, Helaman and his brethren went forth, and did declare the word of God with much power unto the aconvincing of many people of their wickedness, which did cause them to repent of their sins and to be baptized unto the Lord their God.
And it came to pass that they did establish again the church of God, throughout all the land.
Yea, and regulations were made concerning the law.
And their ajudges, and their chief judges were chosen.
And the people of Nephi began to aprosper again in the land, and began to multiply and to wax exceedingly strong again in the land.
And they began to grow exceedingly rich.
But notwithstanding their riches, or their strength, or their prosperity, they were not lifted up in the pride of their eyes; neither were they aslow to remember the Lord their God; but they did humble themselves exceedingly before him.
Yea, they did remember how great things the Lord had done for them, that he had adelivered them from death, and from bonds, and from prisons, and from all manner of bafflictions, and he had cdelivered them out of the hands of their enemies.
And they did pray unto the Lord their God continually, insomuch that the Lord did bless them, according to his word, so that they did wax strong and aprosper in the land.
And it came to pass that all these things were done.
And aHelaman died, in the thirty and fifth year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi.
 And it came to pass in the commencement of the thirty and sixth year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi, that aShiblon took possession of those bsacred things which had been delivered unto Helaman by Alma.
And he was a just man, and he did walk uprightly before God; and he did observe to do good continually, to keep the commandments of the Lord his God; and also did his brother.
And it came to pass that aMoroni died also.
And thus ended the thirty and sixth year of the reign of the judges.
And it came to pass that in the thirty and seventh year of the reign of the judges, there was a large company of men, even to the amount of five thousand and four hundred men, with their wives and their children, departed out of the land of Zarahemla into the land which was anorthward.
And it came to pass that Hagoth, he being an aexceedingly curious man, therefore he went forth and built him an exceedingly large ship, on the borders of the land bBountiful, by the land Desolation, and launched it forth into the west sea, by the cnarrow neck which led into the land northward.
And behold, there were many of the Nephites who did enter therein and did sail forth with much provisions, and also many women and children; and they took their course northward.
And thus ended the thirty and seventh year.
And in the thirty and eighth year, this man built aother ships.
And the first ship did also return, and many more people did enter into it; and they also took much provisions, and set out again to the land northward.
And it came to pass that they were never heard of more.
And we suppose that they were drowned in the depths of the sea.
And it came to pass that one other ship also did sail forth; and whither she did go we know not.
And it came to pass that in this year there were many people who went forth into the land anorthward.
And thus ended the thirty and eighth year.
And it came to pass in the thirty and ninth year of the reign of the judges, aShiblon died also, and Corianton had gone forth to the land northward in a ship, to carry forth provisions unto the people who had gone forth into that land.
Therefore it became expedient for aShiblon to confer those sacred things, before his death, upon the son of bHelaman, who was called cHelaman, being called after the name of his father.
Now behold, all those aengravings which were in the possession of Helaman were written and sent forth among the children of men throughout all the land, save it were those parts which had been commanded by Alma should bnot go forth.
Nevertheless, these things were to be kept sacred, and ahanded down from one generation to another; therefore, in this year, they had been conferred upon Helaman, before the death of Shiblon.
And it came to pass also in this year that there were some dissenters who had gone forth unto the Lamanites; and they were astirred up again to anger against the Nephites.
And also in this same year they came down with a numerous army to war against the people of aMoronihah, or against the army of Moronihah, in the which they were beaten and driven back again to their own lands, suffering great loss.
And thus ended the thirty and ninth year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi.
And thus ended the account of aAlma, and Helaman his son, and also Shiblon, who was his son.
 Behold my beloved brethren, seeing that I have been permitted to come unto you, therefore I attempt to address you in my language; yea, by my aown mouth, seeing that it is the first time that I have spoken unto you by the words of my mouth, I having been wholly confined to the bjudgment-seat, having had much business that I could not come unto you.
And even I could not have come now at this time were it not that the judgment-seat hath been agiven to another, to reign in my stead; and the Lord in much mercy hath granted that I should come unto you.
And behold, I have come having great hopes and much desire that I should find that ye had humbled yourselves before God, and that ye had continued in the supplicating of his grace, that I should find that ye were blameless before him, that I should find that ye were not in the awful adilemma that our brethren were in at Zarahemla.
But blessed be the name of God, that he hath given me to know, yea, hath given unto me the exceedingly great joy of knowing that they are established again in the way of his righteousness.
And I trust, according to the Spirit of God which is in me, that I shall also have joy over you; nevertheless I do not desire that my joy over you should come by the cause of so much afflictions and sorrow which I have had for the brethren at Zarahemla, for behold, my joy cometh over them after wading through much affliction and sorrow.
But behold, I trust that ye are not in a state of so much unbelief as were your brethren; I trust that ye are not lifted up in the pride of your hearts; yea, I trust that ye have not set your hearts upon riches and the vain things of the world; yea, I trust that you do not worship aidols, but that ye do worship the true and the bliving God, and that ye look forward for the remission of your sins, with an everlasting faith, which is to come.
For behold, I say unto you there be many things to come; and behold, there is one thing which is of more importance than they all—for behold, the atime is not far distant that the Redeemer liveth and cometh among his people.
Behold, I do not say that he will come among us at the atime of his dwelling in his mortal tabernacle; for behold, the Spirit hath not said unto me that this should be the case.
Now as to this thing I do not know; but this much I do know, that the Lord God hath power to do all things which are according to his word.
But behold, the Spirit hath said this much unto me, saying: Cry unto this people, saying—aRepent ye, and prepare the way of the Lord, and walk in his paths, which are straight; for behold, the kingdom of heaven is at hand, and the Son of God bcometh upon the face of the earth.
And behold, he shall be aborn of Mary, at bJerusalem which is the cland of our forefathers, she being a dvirgin, a precious and chosen vessel, who shall be overshadowed and econceive by the power of the Holy Ghost, and bring forth a son, yea, even the Son of God.
And he shall go forth, suffering pains and aafflictions and btemptations of every kind; and this that the word might be fulfilled which saith he will ctake upon him the pains and the sicknesses of his people.
And he will take upon him adeath, that he may bloose the bands of death which bind his people; and he will take upon him their infirmities, that his bowels may be filled with mercy, according to the flesh, that he may know according to the flesh how to csuccor his people according to their infirmities.
Now the Spirit aknoweth all things; nevertheless the Son of God suffereth according to the bflesh that he might ctake upon him the sins of his people, that he might blot out their transgressions according to the power of his deliverance; and now behold, this is the testimony which is in me.
Now I say unto you that ye must arepent, and be born again; for the Spirit saith if ye are not born again ye cannot inherit the kingdom of heaven; therefore come and be baptized unto repentance, that ye may be washed from your sins, that ye may have faith on the Lamb of God, who taketh away the sins of the world, who is mighty to save and to cleanse from all unrighteousness.
Yea, I say unto you come and fear not, and lay aside every sin, which easily doth abeset you, which doth bind you down to destruction, yea, come and go forth, and show unto your God that ye are willing to repent of your sins and enter into a covenant with him to keep his commandments, and witness it unto him this day by going into the waters of baptism.
And whosoever doeth this, and keepeth the commandments of God from thenceforth, the same will aremember that I say unto him, yea, he will remember that I have said unto him, he shall have eternal life, according to the testimony of the Holy Spirit, which testifieth in me.
And now my beloved brethren, do you believe these things?
Behold, I say unto you, yea, I know that ye believe them; and the way that I know that ye believe them is by the manifestation of the Spirit which is in me.
And now because your faith is strong concerning that, yea, concerning the things which I have spoken, great is my joy.
For as I said unto you from the beginning, that I had much desire that ye were not in the state of adilemma like your brethren, even so I have found that my desires have been gratified.
For I perceive that ye are in the paths of righteousness; I perceive that ye are in the path which leads to the kingdom of God; yea, I perceive that ye are making his apaths straight.
I perceive that it has been made known unto you, by the testimony of his word, that he cannot awalk in crooked paths; neither doth he vary from that which he hath said; neither hath he a shadow of turning from the right to the left, or from that which is right to that which is wrong; therefore, his course is one eternal round.
And he doth not dwell in aunholy temples; neither can filthiness or anything which is unclean be received into the kingdom of God; therefore I say unto you the time shall come, yea, and it shall be at the last day, that he who is bfilthy shall remain in his filthiness.
And now my beloved brethren, I have said these things unto you that I might awaken you to a sense of your duty to God, that ye may walk blameless before him, that ye may walk after the holy order of God, after which ye have been received.
And now I would that ye should be ahumble, and be bsubmissive and gentle; easy to be entreated; full of patience and long-suffering; being temperate in all things; being diligent in keeping the commandments of God at all times; asking for whatsoever things ye stand in need, both spiritual and temporal; always returning thanks unto God for whatsoever things ye do receive.
And see that ye have afaith, hope, and charity, and then ye will always abound in good works.
And may the Lord bless you, and keep your garments spotless, that ye may at last be brought to sit down with aAbraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and the holy prophets who have been ever since the world began, having your garments bspotless even as their garments are spotless, in the kingdom of heaven to go no more out.
And now my beloved brethren, I have spoken these words unto you according to the Spirit which testifieth in me; and my soul doth exceedingly rejoice, because of the exceeding diligence and heed which ye have given unto my word.
And now, may the apeace of God rest upon you, and upon your houses and lands, and upon your flocks and herds, and all that you possess, your women and your children, according to your faith and good works, from this time forth and forever.
And thus I have spoken.
Amen.
 And again, I, Alma, having been commanded of God that I should take Amulek and go forth and preach again unto this people, or the people who were in the city of aAmmonihah, it came to pass as I began to preach unto them, they began to contend with me, saying: Who art thou?
Suppose ye that we shall believe the testimony of aone man, although he should preach unto us that the earth should pass away?
Now they understood not the words which they spake; for they knew not that the earth should pass away.
And they said also: We will not believe thy words if thou shouldst prophesy that this great city should be destroyed in aone day.
Now they knew not that God could do such marvelous aworks, for they were a hard-hearted and a stiffnecked people.
And they said: aWho is God, that sendeth bno more authority than one man among this people, to declare unto them the truth of such great and marvelous things?
And they stood forth to lay their hands on me; but behold, they did not.
And I stood with boldness to declare unto them, yea, I did boldly testify unto them, saying: Behold, O ye wicked and perverse ageneration, how have ye forgotten the btradition of your fathers; yea, how soon ye have forgotten the commandments of God.
Do ye not remember that our father, Lehi, was brought out of Jerusalem by the ahand of God?
Do ye not remember that they were all led by him through the wilderness?
And have ye forgotten so soon how many times he adelivered our fathers out of the hands of their enemies, and preserved them from being destroyed, even by the hands of their own brethren?
Yea, and if it had not been for his matchless power, and his mercy, and his along-suffering towards us, we should unavoidably have been cut off from the face of the earth long before this period of time, and perhaps been consigned to a state of bendless misery and woe.
Behold, now I say unto you that he commandeth you to repent; and except ye repent, ye can in nowise inherit the kingdom of God.
But behold, this is not all—he has commanded you to repent, or he will utterly adestroy you from off the face of the earth; yea, he will visit you in his banger, and in his cfierce anger he will not turn away.
Behold, do ye not remember the words which he spake unto Lehi, saying that: aInasmuch as ye shall keep my commandments, ye shall prosper in the land?
And again it is said that: Inasmuch as ye will not keep my commandments ye shall be cut off from the presence of the Lord.
Now I would that ye should remember, that inasmuch as the Lamanites have not kept the commandments of God, they have been acut off from the presence of the Lord.
Now we see that the word of the Lord has been verified in this thing, and the Lamanites have been cut off from his presence, from the beginning of their transgressions in the land.
Nevertheless I say unto you, that it shall be more atolerable for them in the day of judgment than for you, if ye remain in your sins, yea, and even more tolerable for them in this life than for you, except ye repent.
For there are many promises which are aextended to the Lamanites; for it is because of the btraditions of their fathers that caused them to remain in their state of cignorance; therefore the Lord will be merciful unto them and dprolong their existence in the land.
And at some period of time they will be abrought to believe in his word, and to know of the incorrectness of the traditions of their fathers; and many of them will be saved, for the Lord will be merciful unto all who bcall on his name.
But behold, I say unto you that if ye persist in your wickedness that your days shall not be aprolonged in the land, for the bLamanites shall be sent upon you; and if ye repent not they shall come in a time when you know not, and ye shall be visited with cutter destruction; and it shall be according to the fierce danger of the Lord.
For he will not suffer you that ye shall live in your iniquities, to adestroy his people.
I say unto you, Nay; he would rather suffer that the Lamanites might destroy all his people who are called the people of Nephi, if it were possible that they could bfall into sins and transgressions, after having had so much light and so much knowledge given unto them of the Lord their God; Yea, after having been such a highly favored people of the Lord; yea, after having been favored above every other anation, kindred, tongue, or people; after having had all things bmade known unto them, according to their desires, and their faith, and prayers, of that which has been, and which is, and which is to come; Having been avisited by the Spirit of God; having conversed with angels, and having been spoken unto by the voice of the Lord; and having the spirit of prophecy, and the spirit of revelation, and also many gifts, the gift of speaking with tongues, and the gift of preaching, and the gift of the Holy Ghost, and the gift of btranslation; Yea, and after having been adelivered of God out of the land of Jerusalem, by the hand of the Lord; having been bsaved from famine, and from sickness, and all manner of diseases of every kind; and they having waxed strong in battle, that they might not be destroyed; having been brought out of cbondage time after time, and having been kept and preserved until now; and they have been prospered until they are rich in all manner of things— And now behold I say unto you, that if this people, who have received so many blessings from the hand of the Lord, should transgress acontrary to the light and knowledge which they do have, I say unto you that if this be the case, that if they should fall into transgression, it would be far more btolerable for the Lamanites than for them.
For behold, the apromises of the Lord are extended to the Lamanites, but they are not unto you if ye transgress; for has not the Lord expressly promised and firmly decreed, that if ye will rebel against him that ye shall butterly be destroyed from off the face of the earth?
And now for this cause, that ye may not be destroyed, the Lord has sent his angel to visit many of his people, declaring unto them that they must go forth and cry mightily unto this people, saying: aRepent ye, for the kingdom of heaven is nigh at hand; And anot many days hence the Son of God shall come in his bglory; and his glory shall be the glory of the Only Begotten of the Father, full of cgrace, equity, and truth, full of patience, dmercy, and long-suffering, quick to ehear the cries of his people and to answer their prayers.
And behold, he cometh to aredeem those who will be bbaptized unto repentance, through faith on his name.
Therefore, prepare ye the way of the Lord, for the time is at hand that all men shall reap a areward of their bworks, according to that which they have been—if they have been righteous they shall creap the salvation of their souls, according to the power and deliverance of Jesus Christ; and if they have been evil they shall reap the ddamnation of their souls, according to the power and captivation of the devil.
Now behold, this is the voice of the angel, crying unto the people.
And now, my abeloved brethren, for ye are my brethren, and ye ought to be beloved, and ye ought to bring forth works which are meet for repentance, seeing that your hearts have been grossly hardened against the word of God, and seeing that ye are a blost and a fallen people.
Now it came to pass that when I, Alma, had spoken these words, behold, the people were wroth with me because I said unto them that they were a hard-hearted and a astiffnecked people.
And also because I said unto them that they were a lost and a fallen people they were angry with me, and sought to lay their hands upon me, that they might cast me into prison.
But it came to pass that the Lord did not suffer them that they should take me aat that time and cast me into prison.
And it came to pass that Amulek went and stood forth, and began to preach unto them also.
And now the awords of Amulek are not all written, nevertheless a part of his words are written in this book.
Wherefore, it is an abridgment of the record of the people of Nephi, and also of the Lamanites—Written to the Lamanites, who are a remnant of the house of Israel; and also to Jew and Gentile—Written by way of commandment, and also by the spirit of prophecy and of revelation—Written and sealed up, and hid up unto the Lord, that they might not be destroyed—To come forth by the gift and power of God unto the interpretation thereof—Sealed by the hand of Moroni, and hid up unto the Lord, to come forth in due time by way of the Gentile—The interpretation thereof by the gift of God.An abridgment taken from the Book of Ether also, which is a record of the people of Jared, who were scattered at the time the Lord confounded the language of the people, when they were building a tower to get to heaven—Which is to show unto the remnant of the house of Israel what great things the Lord hath done for their fathers; and that they may know the covenants of the Lord, that they are not cast off forever—And also to the convincing of the Jew and Gentile that Jesus is the Christ, the Eternal God, manifesting himself unto all nations—And now, if there are faults they are the mistakes of men; wherefore, condemn not the things of God, that ye may be found spotless at the judgment-seat of Christ.Translated by Joseph Smith, Jun.
Be it known unto all nations, kindreds, tongues, and people, unto whom this work shall come: That Joseph Smith, Jun., the translator of this work, has shown unto us the plates of which hath been spoken, which have the appearance of gold; and as many of the leaves as the said Smith has translated we did handle with our hands; and we also saw the engravings thereon, all of which has the appearance of ancient work, and of curious workmanship.
And this we bear record with words of soberness, that the said Smith has shown unto us, for we have seen and hefted, and know of a surety that the said Smith has got the plates of which we have spoken.
And we give our names unto the world, to witness unto the world that which we have seen.
And we lie not, God bearing witness of it.Christian WhitmerJacob WhitmerPeter Whitmer, Jun.John WhitmerHiram PageJoseph Smith, Sen.Hyrum SmithSamuel H. Smith
 Behold, it came to pass that I, aEnos, knowing my father that bhe was a just man—for he ctaught me in his language, and also in the dnurture and admonition of the Lord—and blessed be the name of my God for it— And I will tell you of the awrestle which I had before God, before I received a bremission of my sins.
Behold, I went to hunt beasts in the forests; and the words which I had often heard my father speak concerning eternal life, and the ajoy of the saints, bsunk deep into my heart.
And my soul ahungered; and I bkneeled down before my Maker, and I ccried unto him in mighty dprayer and supplication for mine own soul; and all the day long did I cry unto him; yea, and when the night came I did still raise my voice high that it reached the heavens.
And there came a avoice unto me, saying: Enos, thy sins are bforgiven thee, and thou shalt be blessed.
And I, Enos, knew that God acould not lie; wherefore, my guilt was swept away.
And I said: Lord, how is it done?
And he said unto me: aBecause of thy bfaith in Christ, whom thou hast never before heard nor seen.
And many years pass away before he shall manifest himself in the flesh; wherefore, go to, thy faith hath made thee cwhole.
Now, it came to pass that when I had heard these words I began to feel a adesire for the bwelfare of my brethren, the Nephites; wherefore, I did cpour out my whole soul unto God for them.
And while I was thus struggling in the spirit, behold, the voice of the Lord came into my amind again, saying: I will visit thy brethren according to their diligence in keeping my commandments.
I have bgiven unto them this land, and it is a holy land; and I ccurse it not save it be for the cause of iniquity; wherefore, I will visit thy brethren according as I have said; and their dtransgressions will I bring down with sorrow upon their own heads.
And after I, Enos, had heard these words, my afaith began to be bunshaken in the Lord; and I cprayed unto him with many long dstrugglings for my brethren, the Lamanites.
And it came to pass that after I had aprayed and labored with all diligence, the Lord said unto me: I will grant unto thee according to thy bdesires, because of thy faith.
And now behold, this was the desire which I desired of him—that if it should so be, that my people, the Nephites, should fall into transgression, and by any means be adestroyed, and the Lamanites should not be bdestroyed, that the Lord God would cpreserve a record of my people, the Nephites; even if it so be by the power of his holy arm, that it might be dbrought forth at some future day unto the Lamanites, that, perhaps, they might be ebrought unto salvation— For at the present our strugglings were avain in restoring them to the true faith.
And they swore in their wrath that, if it were possible, they would bdestroy our records and us, and also all the traditions of our fathers.
Wherefore, I knowing that the Lord God was able to apreserve our records, I cried unto him continually, for he had said unto me: Whatsoever thing ye shall ask in faith, believing that ye shall receive in the name of Christ, ye shall receive it.
And I had faith, and I did cry unto God that he would apreserve the brecords; and he covenanted with me that he would cbring dthem forth unto the Lamanites in his own due time.
And I, Enos, aknew it would be according to the covenant which he had made; wherefore my soul did rest.
And the Lord said unto me: Thy fathers have also required of me this thing; and it shall be done unto them according to their faith; for their faith was like unto thine.
And now it came to pass that I, Enos, went about among the people of Nephi, prophesying of things to come, and testifying of the things which I had heard and seen.
And I bear record that the people of Nephi did seek diligently to arestore the Lamanites unto the true faith in God.
But our blabors were vain; their chatred was fixed, and they were led by their evil nature that they became wild, and ferocious, and a dblood-thirsty people, full of eidolatry and ffilthiness; feeding upon beasts of prey; dwelling in gtents, and wandering about in the wilderness with a short skin girdle about their loins and their heads shaven; and their skill was in the hbow, and in the cimeter, and the ax.
And many of them did eat nothing save it was raw meat; and they were continually seeking to destroy us.
And it came to pass that the people of Nephi did till the land, and araise all manner of grain, and of fruit, and bflocks of herds, and flocks of all manner of cattle of every kind, and goats, and wild goats, and also many horses.
And there were exceedingly many aprophets among us.
And the people were a bstiffnecked people, hard to understand.
And there was nothing save it was exceeding aharshness, bpreaching and prophesying of wars, and contentions, and destructions, and continually creminding them of death, and the duration of eternity, and the judgments and the power of God, and all these things—stirring them up dcontinually to keep them in the fear of the Lord.
I say there was nothing short of these things, and exceedingly great plainness of speech, would keep them from going down speedily to destruction.
And after this manner do I write concerning them.
And I saw awars between the Nephites and Lamanites in the course of my days.
And it came to pass that I began to be old, and an hundred and seventy and nine years had passed away from the time that our father Lehi aleft Jerusalem.
And I saw that I amust soon go down to my grave, having been wrought upon by the power of God that I must preach and prophesy unto this people, and declare the word according to the truth which is in Christ.
And I have declared it in all my days, and have rejoiced in it above that of the world.
And I soon go to the place of my arest, which is with my Redeemer; for I know that in him I shall brest.
And I rejoice in the day when my cmortal shall put on dimmortality, and shall stand before him; then shall I see his face with pleasure, and he will say unto me: Come unto me, ye blessed, there is a place prepared for you in the emansions of my Father.
Amen.
 And now I, Moroni, proceed to give an aaccount of those ancient inhabitants who were destroyed by the bhand of the Lord upon the face of this north country.
And I take mine account from the atwenty and four plates which were found by the people of Limhi, which is called the Book of Ether.
And as I suppose that the afirst part of this record, which speaks concerning the creation of the world, and also of Adam, and an account from that time even to the great btower, and whatsoever things transpired among the children of men until that time, is had among the Jews— Therefore I do not write those things which transpired from the adays of Adam until that time; but they are had upon the plates; and whoso findeth them, the same will have power that he may get the full account.
But behold, I give not the full account, but a apart of the account I give, from the tower down until they were destroyed.
And on this wise do I give the account.
He that wrote this record was aEther, and he was a descendant of Coriantor.
Coriantor was the son of Moron.
And Moron was the son of Ethem.
And Ethem was the son of Ahah.
And Ahah was the son of Seth.
And Seth was the son of Shiblon.
And Shiblon was the son of Com.
And Com was the son of Coriantum.
And Coriantum was the son of Amnigaddah.
And Amnigaddah was the son of Aaron.
And Aaron was a descendant of Heth, who was the son of Hearthom.
And Hearthom was the son of Lib.
And Lib was the son of Kish.
And Kish was the son of Corom.
And Corom was the son of Levi.
And Levi was the son of Kim.
And Kim was the son of Morianton.
And Morianton was a descendant of Riplakish.
And Riplakish was the son of Shez.
And Shez was the son of Heth.
And Heth was the son of Com.
And Com was the son of Coriantum.
And Coriantum was the son of Emer.
And Emer was the son of Omer.
And Omer was the son of Shule.
And Shule was the son of Kib.
And aKib was the son of bOrihah, who was the son of Jared; Which aJared came forth with his brother and their families, with some others and their families, from the great tower, at the time the Lord bconfounded the language of the people, and swore in his wrath that they should be scattered upon all the cface of the earth; and according to the word of the Lord the people were scattered.
And the abrother of Jared being a large and mighty man, and a man highly favored of the Lord, Jared, his brother, said unto him: Cry unto the Lord, that he will not confound us that we may not bunderstand our words.
And it came to pass that the brother of Jared did cry unto the Lord, and the Lord had compassion upon Jared; therefore he did not confound the alanguage of Jared; and Jared and his brother were not confounded.
Then Jared said unto his brother: Cry again unto the Lord, and it may be that he will turn away his anger from them who are our afriends, that he confound not their language.
And it came to pass that the brother of Jared did cry unto the Lord, and the Lord had compassion upon their friends and their families also, that they were not confounded.
And it came to pass that Jared spake again unto his brother, saying: Go and ainquire of the Lord whether he will drive us out of the land, and if he will drive us out of the land, cry unto him whither we shall go.
And who knoweth but the Lord will carry us forth into a land which is bchoice above all the earth?
And if it so be, let us be faithful unto the Lord, that we may receive it for our inheritance.
And it came to pass that the brother of Jared did cry unto the Lord according to that which had been spoken by the mouth of Jared.
And it came to pass that the Lord did hear the brother of Jared, and ahad compassion upon him, and said unto him: Go to and gather together thy aflocks, both male and female, of every kind; and also of the bseed of the earth of every kind; and cthy dfamilies; and also Jared thy brother and his family; and also thy efriends and their families, and the friends of Jared and their families.
And when thou hast done this thou shalt ago at the head of them down into the valley which is northward.
And there will I meet thee, and I will go bbefore thee into a land which is cchoice above all the lands of the earth.
And there will I bless thee and thy seed, and raise up unto me of thy seed, and of the seed of thy brother, and they who shall go with thee, a great nation.
And athere shall be none bgreater than the nation which I will raise up unto me of thy seed, upon all the face of the earth.
And thus I will do unto thee because this long time ye have cried unto me.
 And it came to pass that Shez, who was a descendant of Heth—for aHeth had perished by the famine, and all his household save it were Shez—wherefore, Shez began to build up again a broken people.
And it came to pass that Shez did remember the destruction of his fathers, and he did build up a righteous kingdom; for he remembered what the Lord had done in bringing Jared and his brother aacross the deep; and he did walk in the ways of the Lord; and he begat sons and daughters.
And his eldest son, whose name was Shez, did arebel against him; nevertheless, Shez was smitten by the hand of a robber, because of his exceeding riches, which brought peace again unto his father.
And it came to pass that his father did build up many cities upon the face of the land, and the people began again to spread over all the face of the land.
And Shez did live to an exceedingly old age; and he begat Riplakish.
And he died, and Riplakish reigned in his stead.
And it came to pass that Riplakish did not do that which was right in the sight of the Lord, for he did have many wives and aconcubines, and did lay that upon men’s shoulders which was grievous to be borne; yea, he did btax them with heavy taxes; and with the taxes he did build many spacious buildings.
And he did erect him an exceedingly beautiful throne; and he did build many prisons, and whoso would not be subject unto taxes he did acast into prison; and whoso was not able to pay taxes he did cast into prison; and he did cause that they should labor continually for their support; and whoso refused to labor he did cause to be put to death.
Wherefore he did obtain all his fine work, yea, even his fine agold he did cause to be refined in prison; and all manner of fine bworkmanship he did cause to be wrought in prison.
And it came to pass that he did afflict the people with his whoredoms and abominations.
And when he had reigned for the space of forty and two years the people did rise up in rebellion against him; and there began to be war again in the land, insomuch that Riplakish was killed, and his descendants were driven out of the land.
And it came to pass after the space of many years, Morianton, (he being a descendant of Riplakish) gathered together an army of outcasts, and went forth and gave battle unto the people; and he gained power over many cities; and the war became exceedingly sore, and did last for the space of many years; and he did gain power over all the land, and did establish himself king over all the land.
And after that he had established himself king he did ease the burden of the people, by which he did gain favor in the eyes of the people, and they did anoint him to be their king.
And he did do justice unto the people, but not unto himself because of his many awhoredoms; wherefore he was cut off from the presence of the Lord.
And it came to pass that Morianton built up many cities, and the people became exceedingly rich under his reign, both in buildings, and in agold and silver, and in raising grain, and in flocks, and herds, and such things which had been restored unto them.
And Morianton did live to an exceedingly great age, and then he begat Kim; and Kim did reign in the stead of his father; and he did reign eight years, and his father died.
And it came to pass that Kim did anot reign in righteousness, wherefore he was not favored of the Lord.
And his brother did rise up in rebellion against him, by which he did bring him into acaptivity; and he did remain in captivity all his days; and he begat sons and daughters in captivity, and in his old age he begat Levi; and he died.
And it came to pass that Levi did serve in captivity after the death of his father, for the space of forty and two years.
And he did make war against the king of the land, by which he did obtain unto himself the kingdom.
And after he had obtained unto himself the kingdom he did that which was right in the sight of the Lord; and the people did prosper in the land; and he did live to a good aold age, and begat sons and daughters; and he also begat Corom, whom he anointed king in his stead.
And it came to pass that Corom did that which was good in the sight of the Lord all his days; and he begat many sons and daughters; and after he had seen many days he did pass away, even like unto the rest of the earth; and Kish reigned in his stead.
And it came to pass that Kish passed away also, and Lib reigned in his stead.
And it came to pass that Lib also did that which was good in the sight of the Lord.
And in the days of Lib the apoisonous serpents were destroyed.
Wherefore they did go into the land southward, to hunt food for the people of the land, for the land was covered with animals of the forest.
And Lib also himself became a great bhunter.
And they built a great city by the anarrow neck of land, by the place where the sea divides the land.
And they did preserve the land asouthward for a wilderness, to get game.
And the whole face of the land northward was covered with inhabitants.
And they were exceedingly aindustrious, and they did buy and sell and btraffic one with another, that they might get gain.
And they did awork in all manner of bore, and they did make gold, and silver, and ciron, and dbrass, and all manner of metals; and they did dig it out of the earth; wherefore, they did cast up mighty heaps of earth to get ore, of gold, and of silver, and of iron, and of copper.
And they did ework all manner of fine work.
And they did have asilks, and fine-twined blinen; and they did work all manner of ccloth, that they might clothe themselves from their nakedness.
And they did make all manner of tools to till the earth, both to plow and to sow, to reap and to hoe, and also to thrash.
And they did make all manner of tools with which they did work their beasts.
And they did make all manner of aweapons of war.
And they did work all manner of work of exceedingly curious workmanship.
And never could be a people more blessed than were they, and more prospered by the hand of the Lord.
And they were in a land that was choice above all lands, for the Lord had spoken it.
And it came to pass that Lib did live many years, and begat sons and daughters; and he also begat Hearthom.
And it came to pass that Hearthom reigned in the stead of his father.
And when Hearthom had reigned twenty and four years, behold, the kingdom was taken away from him.
And he served many years in acaptivity, yea, even all the remainder of his days.
And he begat Heth, and Heth lived in captivity all his days.
And Heth begat Aaron, and Aaron dwelt in captivity all his days; and he begat Amnigaddah, and Amnigaddah also dwelt in captivity all his days; and he begat Coriantum, and Coriantum dwelt in captivity all his days; and he begat Com.
And it came to pass that Com drew away the half of the kingdom.
And he reigned over the half of the kingdom forty and two years; and he went to battle against the king, Amgid, and they fought for the space of many years, during which time Com gained power over Amgid, and obtained power over the remainder of the kingdom.
And in the days of Com there began to be robbers in the land; and they adopted the old plans, and administered aoaths after the manner of the ancients, and sought again to destroy the kingdom.
Now Com did fight against them much; nevertheless, he did not prevail against them.
 And there came also in the days of Com many aprophets, and prophesied of the destruction of that great people except they should repent, and turn unto the Lord, and forsake their murders and wickedness.
And it came to pass that the prophets were arejected by the people, and they fled unto Com for protection, for the people sought to destroy them.
And they prophesied unto Com many things; and he was blessed in all the remainder of his days.
And he lived to a good old age, and begat Shiblom; and Shiblom reigned in his stead.
And the brother of Shiblom rebelled against him, and there began to be an exceedingly great war in all the land.
And it came to pass that the brother of Shiblom caused that all the prophets who prophesied of the destruction of the people should be put to adeath; And there was great calamity in all the land, for they had testified that a great curse should come upon the land, and also upon the people, and that there should be a great destruction among them, such an one as never had been upon the face of the earth, and their bones should become as aheaps of earth upon the face of the land except they should repent of their wickedness.
And they hearkened not unto the voice of the Lord, because of their wicked combinations; wherefore, there began to be wars and acontentions in all the land, and also many famines and pestilences, insomuch that there was a great destruction, such an one as never had been known upon the face of the earth; and all this came to pass in the days of Shiblom.
And the people began to repent of their iniquity; and inasmuch as they did the Lord did have amercy on them.
And it came to pass that Shiblom was slain, and Seth was brought into acaptivity, and did dwell in captivity all his days.
And it came to pass that Ahah, his son, did obtain the kingdom; and he did reign over the people all his days.
And he did do all manner of iniquity in his days, by which he did cause the shedding of much blood; and few were his days.
And Ethem, being a descendant of Ahah, did obtain the kingdom; and he also did do that which was wicked in his days.
And it came to pass that in the days of Ethem there came many prophets, and prophesied again unto the people; yea, they did prophesy that the Lord would utterly adestroy them from off the face of the earth except they repented of their iniquities.
And it came to pass that the people hardened their hearts, and would not ahearken unto their words; and the prophets bmourned and withdrew from among the people.
And it came to pass that Ethem did execute judgment in wickedness all his days; and he begat Moron.
And it came to pass that Moron did reign in his stead; and Moron did that which was wicked before the Lord.
And it came to pass that there arose a arebellion among the people, because of that secret bcombination which was built up to get power and gain; and there arose a mighty man among them in iniquity, and gave battle unto Moron, in which he did overthrow the half of the kingdom; and he did maintain the half of the kingdom for many years.
And it came to pass that Moron did overthrow him, and did obtain the kingdom again.
And it came to pass that there arose another mighty man; and he was a descendant of the brother of Jared.
And it came to pass that he did overthrow Moron and obtain the kingdom; wherefore, Moron dwelt in acaptivity all the remainder of his days; and he begat Coriantor.
And it came to pass that Coriantor dwelt in captivity all his days.
And in the days of Coriantor there also came many prophets, and prophesied of great and marvelous things, and cried repentance unto the people, and except they should repent the Lord God would execute ajudgment against them to their utter destruction; And that the Lord God would send or bring forth aanother people to possess the bland, by his power, after the manner by which he brought their fathers.
And they did areject all the words of the prophets, because of their bsecret society and wicked abominations.
And it came to pass that Coriantor begat aEther, and he died, having dwelt in captivity all his days.
 And it came to pass that the days of Ether were in the days of aCoriantumr; and Coriantumr was king over all the land.
And aEther was a prophet of the Lord; wherefore Ether came forth in the days of Coriantumr, and began to prophesy unto the people, for he could not be brestrained because of the Spirit of the Lord which was in him.
For he did acry from the bmorning, even until the going down of the sun, exhorting the people to believe in God unto repentance lest they should be cdestroyed, saying unto them that dby efaith all things are fulfilled— Wherefore, whoso believeth in God might with asurety bhope for a better world, yea, even a place at the right hand of God, which chope cometh of dfaith, maketh an eanchor to the souls of men, which would make them sure and steadfast, always abounding in fgood works, being led to gglorify God.
And it came to pass that Ether did prophesy great and marvelous things unto the people, which they did not believe, because they asaw them not.
And now, I, Moroni, would speak somewhat concerning these things; I would show unto the world that afaith is things which are bhoped for and cnot seen; wherefore, dispute not because ye see not, for ye receive no dwitness until after the etrial of your faith.
For it was by faith that Christ showed himself unto our fathers, after he had risen from the dead; and he showed not himself unto them until after they had faith in him; wherefore, it must needs be that some had faith in him, for he showed himself anot unto the world.
But because of the faith of men he has shown himself unto the world, and glorified the name of the Father, and prepared a way that thereby others might be partakers of the heavenly gift, that they might hope for those things which they have not seen.
Wherefore, ye may also have hope, and be partakers of the gift, if ye will but have faith.
Behold it was by faith that they of old were acalled after the holy order of God.
Wherefore, by faith was the law of Moses given.
But in the agift of his Son hath God prepared a more bexcellent way; and it is by faith that it hath been fulfilled.
For if there be no afaith among the children of men God can do no bmiracle among them; wherefore, he showed not himself until after their faith.
Behold, it was the faith of Alma and Amulek that caused the aprison to tumble to the earth.
Behold, it was the faith of Nephi and Lehi that wrought the achange upon the Lamanites, that they were baptized with fire and with the bHoly Ghost.
Behold, it was the faith of aAmmon and his brethren which bwrought so great a miracle among the Lamanites.
Yea, and even all they who wrought amiracles wrought them by bfaith, even those who were before Christ and also those who were after.
And it was by faith that the three disciples obtained a promise that they should anot taste of death; and they obtained not the promise until after their faith.
And neither at any time hath any wrought miracles until after their faith; wherefore they first believed in the Son of God.
And there were many whose faith was so exceedingly strong, even abefore Christ came, who could not be kept from within the bveil, but truly saw with their eyes the things which they had beheld with an eye of faith, and they were glad.
And behold, we have seen in this record that one of these was the brother of Jared; for so great was his faith in God, that when God put forth his afinger he could not hide it from the sight of the brother of Jared, because of his word which he had spoken unto him, which word he had obtained by faith.
And after the brother of Jared had beheld the finger of the Lord, because of the apromise which the brother of Jared had obtained by faith, the Lord could not withhold anything from his sight; wherefore he showed him all things, for he could no longer be kept without the bveil.
And it is by faith that my fathers have obtained the apromise that these things should come unto their brethren through the Gentiles; therefore the Lord hath commanded me, yea, even Jesus Christ.
And I said unto him: Lord, the Gentiles will amock at these things, because of our bweakness in writing; for Lord thou hast made us cmighty in word by faith, but thou hast not made us mighty in writing; for thou hast made all this people that they could speak much, because of the Holy Ghost which thou hast given them; And thou hast made us that we could write but little, because of the aawkwardness of our hands.
Behold, thou hast not made us mighty in bwriting like unto the brother of Jared, for thou madest him that the things which he cwrote were mighty even as thou art, unto the overpowering of man to read them.
Thou hast also made our words powerful and great, even that we acannot write them; wherefore, when we write we behold our bweakness, and stumble because of the placing of our words; and I fear lest the Gentiles shall cmock at our words.
And when I had said this, the Lord spake unto me, saying: aFools bmock, but they shall mourn; and my grace is sufficient for the meek, that they shall take no advantage of your weakness; And if men come unto me I will show unto them their aweakness.
I bgive unto men weakness that they may be humble; and my cgrace is sufficient for all men that dhumble themselves before me; for if they humble themselves before me, and have faith in me, then will I make eweak things become strong unto them.
Behold, I will show unto the Gentiles their weakness, and I will show unto them that afaith, hope and charity bringeth unto me—the fountain of all brighteousness.
And I, Moroni, having heard these words, was acomforted, and said: O Lord, thy righteous will be done, for I know that thou workest unto the children of men according to their faith; For the brother of Jared said unto the mountain Zerin, aRemove—and it was removed.
And if he had not had faith it would not have moved; wherefore thou workest after men have faith.
For thus didst thou manifest thyself unto thy disciples; for aafter they had bfaith, and did speak in thy name, thou didst show thyself unto them in great power.
And I also remember that thou hast said that thou hast prepared a house for man, yea, even among the amansions of thy Father, in which man might have a more excellent bhope; wherefore man must hope, or he cannot receive an inheritance in the place which thou hast prepared.
And again, I remember that thou hast said that thou hast aloved the world, even unto the laying down of thy life for the world, that thou mightest take it again to prepare a place for the children of men.
And now I know that this alove which thou hast had for the children of men is charity; wherefore, except men shall have charity they cannot inherit that place which thou hast prepared in the mansions of thy Father.
Wherefore, I know by this thing which thou hast said, that if the Gentiles have not acharity, because of our weakness, that thou wilt prove them, and btake away their ctalent, yea, even that which they have received, and give unto them who shall have more abundantly.
And it came to pass that I prayed unto the Lord that he would give unto the Gentiles agrace, that they might have charity.
And it came to pass that the Lord said unto me: If they have not charity it mattereth not unto thee, thou hast been faithful; wherefore, thy garments shall be made aclean.
And because thou hast seen thy bweakness thou shalt be made strong, even unto the sitting down in the place which I have prepared in the mansions of my Father.
And now I, Moroni, bid farewell unto the Gentiles, yea, and also unto my brethren whom I love, until we shall meet before the ajudgment-seat of Christ, where all men shall know that my bgarments are not spotted with your blood.
And then shall ye know that I have aseen Jesus, and that he hath talked with me bface to face, and that he told me in cplain humility, even as a man telleth another in mine own language, concerning these things; And only a few have I written, because of my weakness in writing.
And now, I would commend you to aseek this Jesus of whom the prophets and apostles have written, that the grace of God the Father, and also the Lord Jesus Christ, and the Holy Ghost, which beareth brecord of them, may be and abide in you forever.
Amen.
 And now I, Moroni, proceed to finish my record concerning the destruction of the people of whom I have been writing.
For behold, they rejected all the words of Ether; for he truly told them of all things, from the beginning of man; and that after the waters had areceded from off the face of this bland it became a choice land above all other lands, a chosen land of the Lord; wherefore the Lord would have that all men should cserve him who dwell upon the face thereof; And that it was the place of the aNew Jerusalem, which should bcome down out of heaven, and the holy sanctuary of the Lord.
Behold, Ether saw the days of Christ, and he spake concerning a aNew Jerusalem upon this land.
And he spake also concerning the house of Israel, and the aJerusalem from whence bLehi should come—after it should be destroyed it should be built up again, a choly city unto the Lord; wherefore, it could not be a new Jerusalem for it had been in a time of old; but it should be built up again, and become a holy city of the Lord; and it should be built unto the house of Israel— And that a aNew Jerusalem should be built up upon this land, unto the remnant of the seed of bJoseph, for which things there has been a ctype.
For as Joseph brought his father down into the land of aEgypt, even so he died there; wherefore, the Lord brought a remnant of the seed of Joseph out of the land of Jerusalem, that he might be merciful unto the seed of Joseph that they should bperish not, even as he was merciful unto the father of Joseph that he should perish not.
Wherefore, the remnant of the house of Joseph shall be built upon this aland; and it shall be a land of their inheritance; and they shall build up a holy bcity unto the Lord, like unto the Jerusalem of old; and they shall cno more be confounded, until the end come when the earth shall pass away.
And there shall be a anew heaven and a new earth; and they shall be like unto the old save the old have passed away, and all things have become new.
And then cometh the New Jerusalem; and blessed are they who dwell therein, for it is they whose garments are awhite through the blood of the Lamb; and they are they who are numbered among the remnant of the seed of Joseph, who were of the house of Israel.
And then also cometh the aJerusalem of old; and the inhabitants thereof, blessed are they, for they have been washed in the blood of the Lamb; and they are they who were scattered and gathered in from the four quarters of the earth, and from the bnorth countries, and are partakers of the fulfilling of the covenant which God made with their father, cAbraham.
And when these things come, bringeth to pass the scripture which saith, there are they who were afirst, who shall be last; and there are they who were last, who shall be first.
And I was about to write more, but I am forbidden; but great and marvelous were the prophecies of Ether; but they esteemed him as naught, and cast him out; and he ahid himself in the cavity of a rock by day, and by night he went forth viewing the things which should come upon the people.
And as he dwelt in the cavity of a rock he made the aremainder of this record, viewing the destructions which came upon the people, by night.
And it came to pass that in that same year in which he was cast out from among the people there began to be a great war among the people, for there were many who rose up, who were mighty men, and sought to destroy Coriantumr by their secret plans of wickedness, of which hath been spoken.
And now Coriantumr, having studied, himself, in all the arts of war and all the cunning of the world, wherefore he gave battle unto them who sought to destroy him.
But he repented not, neither his afair sons nor daughters; neither the fair sons and daughters of Cohor; neither the fair sons and daughters of Corihor; and in fine, there were none of the fair sons and daughters upon the face of the whole earth who repented of their sins.
Wherefore, it came to pass that in the first year that Ether dwelt in the cavity of a rock, there were many people who were slain by the sword of those asecret combinations, fighting against Coriantumr that they might obtain the kingdom.
And it came to pass that the sons of Coriantumr fought much and bled much.
And in the second year the word of the Lord came to Ether, that he should go and aprophesy unto bCoriantumr that, if he would repent, and all his household, the Lord would give unto him his kingdom and spare the people— Otherwise they should be destroyed, and all his household save it were himself.
And he should only live to see the fulfilling of the prophecies which had been spoken concerning aanother people receiving the land for their inheritance; and Coriantumr should receive a burial by them; and every soul should be destroyed save it were bCoriantumr.
And it came to pass that Coriantumr repented not, neither his household, neither the people; and the wars ceased not; and they sought to akill Ether, but he fled from before them and hid again in the cavity of the rock.
And it came to pass that there arose up Shared, and he also gave battle unto Coriantumr; and he did beat him, insomuch that in the third year he did bring him into captivity.
And the sons of Coriantumr, in the fourth year, did beat Shared, and did obtain the kingdom again unto their father.
Now there began to be a war upon all the face of the land, aevery man with his band fighting for that which he desired.
And there were robbers, and in fine, all manner of wickedness upon all the face of the land.
And it came to pass that Coriantumr was exceedingly angry with Shared, and he went against him with his armies to battle; and they did meet in great anger, and they did meet in the valley of Gilgal; and the battle became exceedingly sore.
And it came to pass that Shared fought against him for the space of three days.
And it came to pass that Coriantumr beat him, and did pursue him until he came to the plains of Heshlon.
And it came to pass that Shared gave him battle again upon the plains; and behold, he did beat Coriantumr, and drove him back again to the valley of Gilgal.
And Coriantumr gave Shared battle again in the valley of Gilgal, in which he beat Shared and slew him.
And Shared wounded Coriantumr in his thigh, that he did not go to battle again for the space of two years, in which time all the people upon the face of the land were shedding blood, and there was none to restrain them.
 And now there began to be a great acurse upon all the land because of the iniquity of the people, in which, if a man should lay his tool or his sword upon his shelf, or upon the place whither he would keep it, behold, upon the morrow, he could not find it, so great was the curse upon the land.
Wherefore every man did cleave unto that which was his own, with his hands, and would not borrow neither would he lend; and every man kept the hilt of his sword in his right hand, in the adefence of his property and his own life and of his wives and children.
And now, after the space of two years, and after the death of Shared, behold, there arose the brother of Shared and he gave battle unto Coriantumr, in which Coriantumr did beat him and did pursue him to the wilderness of Akish.
And it came to pass that the brother of Shared did give battle unto him in the wilderness of Akish; and the battle became exceedingly sore, and many thousands fell by the sword.
And it came to pass that Coriantumr did lay siege to the wilderness; and the brother of Shared did march forth out of the wilderness by night, and slew a part of the army of Coriantumr, as they were drunken.
And he came forth to the land of aMoron, and placed himself upon the throne of Coriantumr.
And it came to pass that Coriantumr dwelt with his army in the wilderness for the space of two years, in which he did receive great strength to his army.
Now the brother of Shared, whose name was Gilead, also received great strength to his army, because of secret combinations.
And it came to pass that his high priest murdered him as he sat upon his throne.
And it came to pass that one of the secret combinations murdered him in a secret pass, and obtained unto himself the kingdom; and his name was Lib; and Lib was a man of great stature, more than any other man among all the people.
And it came to pass that in the first year of Lib, Coriantumr came up unto the land of Moron, and gave battle unto Lib.
And it came to pass that he fought with Lib, in which Lib did smite upon his arm that he was wounded; nevertheless, the army of Coriantumr did press forward upon Lib, that he fled to the borders upon the seashore.
And it came to pass that Coriantumr pursued him; and Lib gave battle unto him upon the seashore.
And it came to pass that Lib did smite the army of Coriantumr, that they fled again to the wilderness of Akish.
And it came to pass that Lib did pursue him until he came to the plains of Agosh.
And Coriantumr had taken all the people with him as he fled before Lib in that quarter of the land whither he fled.
And when he had come to the plains of Agosh he gave battle unto Lib, and he smote upon him until he died; nevertheless, the brother of Lib did come against Coriantumr in the stead thereof, and the battle became exceedingly sore, in the which Coriantumr fled again before the army of the brother of Lib.
Now the name of the brother of Lib was called Shiz.
And it came to pass that Shiz pursued after Coriantumr, and he did overthrow many cities, and he did slay both women and children, and he did burn the cities.
And there went a fear of Shiz throughout all the land; yea, a cry went forth throughout the land—Who can stand before the army of Shiz?
Behold, he sweepeth the earth before him!
And it came to pass that the people began to flock together in armies, throughout all the face of the land.
And they were divided; and a part of them fled to the army of Shiz, and a part of them fled to the army of Coriantumr.
And so great and lasting had been the war, and so long had been the scene of bloodshed and carnage, that the whole face of the land was covered with the abodies of the bdead.
And so swift and speedy was the war that there was none left to bury the dead, but they did march forth from the shedding of ablood to the shedding of blood, leaving the bodies of both men, women, and children strewed upon the face of the land, to become a prey to the bworms of the flesh.
And the ascent thereof went forth upon the face of the land, even upon all the face of the land; wherefore the people became troubled by day and by night, because of the scent thereof.
Nevertheless, Shiz did anot cease to pursue Coriantumr; for he had sworn to avenge himself upon Coriantumr of the blood of his brother, who had been slain, and the word of the Lord which came to Ether that Coriantumr should not fall by the sword.
And thus we see that the Lord did visit them in the fulness of his awrath, and their wickedness and abominations had prepared a way for their everlasting destruction.
And it came to pass that Shiz did pursue Coriantumr eastward, even to the borders by the seashore, and there he gave battle unto Shiz for the space of three days.
And so terrible was the destruction among the armies of Shiz that the people began to be frightened, and began to flee before the armies of Coriantumr; and they fled to the land of Corihor, and swept off the inhabitants before them, all them that would not join them.
And they pitched their tents in the valley of Corihor; and Coriantumr pitched his tents in the valley of Shurr.
Now the valley of Shurr was near the hill Comnor; wherefore, Coriantumr did gather his armies together upon the hill Comnor, and did sound a trumpet unto the armies of Shiz to invite them forth to battle.
And it came to pass that they came forth, but were driven again; and they came the second time, and they were driven again the second time.
And it came to pass that they came again the third time, and the battle became exceedingly sore.
And it came to pass that Shiz smote upon Coriantumr that he gave him many deep wounds; and Coriantumr, having lost his blood, fainted, and was carried away as though he were dead.
Now the loss of men, women and children on both sides was so great that Shiz commanded his people that they should not pursue the armies of Coriantumr; wherefore, they returned to their camp.
 And it came to pass when Coriantumr had recovered of his wounds, he began to remember the awords which Ether had spoken unto him.
He saw that there had been slain by the sword already nearly atwo millions of his people, and he began to sorrow in his heart; yea, there had been slain two millions of mighty men, and also their wives and their children.
He began to repent of the evil which he had done; he began to remember the words which had been spoken by the mouth of all the prophets, and he saw them that they were fulfilled thus far, every whit; and his soul amourned and refused to be bcomforted.
And it came to pass that he wrote an epistle unto Shiz, desiring him that he would spare the people, and he would give up the kingdom for the sake of the lives of the people.
And it came to pass that when Shiz had received his epistle he wrote an epistle unto Coriantumr, that if he would give himself up, that he might slay him with his own sword, that he would spare the lives of the people.
And it came to pass that the people repented not of their iniquity; and the people of Coriantumr were stirred up to anger against the people of Shiz; and the people of Shiz were stirred up to anger against the people of Coriantumr; wherefore, the people of Shiz did give battle unto the people of Coriantumr.
And when Coriantumr saw that he was about to fall he fled again before the people of Shiz.
And it came to pass that he came to the waters of Ripliancum, which, by interpretation, is large, or to exceed all; wherefore, when they came to these waters they pitched their tents; and Shiz also pitched his tents near unto them; and therefore on the morrow they did come to battle.
And it came to pass that they fought an exceedingly sore battle, in which Coriantumr was wounded again, and he fainted with the loss of blood.
And it came to pass that the armies of Coriantumr did press upon the armies of Shiz that they beat them, that they caused them to flee before them; and they did flee southward, and did pitch their tents in a place which was called Ogath.
And it came to pass that the army of Coriantumr did pitch their tents by the hill Ramah; and it was that same hill where my father Mormon did ahide up the records unto the Lord, which were sacred.
And it came to pass that they did gather together all the people upon all the face of the land, who had not been slain, save it was Ether.
And it came to pass that Ether did abehold all the doings of the people; and he beheld that the people who were for Coriantumr were gathered together to the army of Coriantumr; and the people who were for Shiz were gathered together to the army of Shiz.
Wherefore, they were for the space of four years gathering together the people, that they might get all who were upon the face of the land, and that they might receive all the strength which it was possible that they could receive.
And it came to pass that when they were all gathered together, every one to the army which he would, with their wives and their children—both men, women and children being armed with aweapons of war, having shields, and bbreastplates, and head-plates, and being clothed after the manner of war—they did march forth one against another to battle; and they fought all that day, and conquered not.
And it came to pass that when it was night they were weary, and retired to their camps; and after they had retired to their camps they took up a howling and a alamentation for the loss of the slain of their people; and so great were their cries, their howlings and lamentations, that they did rend the air exceedingly.
And it came to pass that on the morrow they did go again to battle, and great and terrible was that day; nevertheless, they conquered not, and when the night came again they did rend the air with their cries, and their howlings, and their mournings, for the loss of the slain of their people.
And it came to pass that Coriantumr wrote again an epistle unto Shiz, desiring that he would not come again to battle, but that he would take the kingdom, and spare the lives of the people.
But behold, the aSpirit of the Lord had ceased striving with them, and bSatan had full power over the chearts of the people; for they were given up unto the hardness of their hearts, and the blindness of their minds that they might be destroyed; wherefore they went again to battle.
And it came to pass that they fought all that day, and when the night came they slept upon their swords.
And on the morrow they fought even until the night came.
And when the night came they were adrunken with anger, even as a man who is drunken with wine; and they slept again upon their swords.
And on the morrow they fought again; and when the night came they had all fallen by the sword save it were fifty and two of the people of Coriantumr, and sixty and nine of the people of Shiz.
And it came to pass that they slept upon their swords that night, and on the morrow they fought again, and they contended in their might with their swords and with their shields, all that day.
And when the night came there were thirty and two of the people of Shiz, and twenty and seven of the people of Coriantumr.
And it came to pass that they ate and slept, and prepared for death on the morrow.
And they were large and mighty men as to the strength of men.
And it came to pass that they fought for the space of three hours, and they fainted with the loss of blood.
And it came to pass that when the men of Coriantumr had received sufficient strength that they could walk, they were about to flee for their lives; but behold, Shiz arose, and also his men, and he swore in his wrath that he would slay Coriantumr or he would perish by the sword.
Wherefore, he did pursue them, and on the morrow he did overtake them; and they fought again with the sword.
And it came to pass that when they had aall fallen by the sword, save it were Coriantumr and Shiz, behold Shiz had fainted with the loss of blood.
And it came to pass that when Coriantumr had leaned upon his sword, that he rested a little, he smote off the head of Shiz.
And it came to pass that after he had smitten off the head of Shiz, that Shiz raised up on his hands and afell; and after that he had struggled for breath, he died.
And it came to pass that aCoriantumr fell to the earth, and became as if he had no life.
And the Lord spake unto Ether, and said unto him: Go forth.
And he went forth, and beheld that the words of the Lord had all been fulfilled; and he afinished his brecord; (and the chundredth part I have not written) and he hid them in a manner that the people of Limhi did find them.
Now the last words which are written by aEther are these: Whether the Lord will that I be translated, or that I suffer the will of the Lord in the flesh, it mattereth not, if it so be that I am bsaved in the kingdom of God.
Amen.
 And it came to pass that Jared and his brother, and their families, and also the afriends of Jared and his brother and their families, went down into the valley which was northward, (and the name of the valley was bNimrod, being called after the mighty hunter) with their cflocks which they had gathered together, male and female, of every kind.
And they did also lay snares and catch afowls of the air; and they did also prepare a vessel, in which they did carry with them the fish of the waters.
And they did also carry with them deseret, which, by interpretation, is a honey bee; and thus they did carry with them aswarms of bees, and all manner of that which was upon the face of the land, bseeds of every kind.
And it came to pass that when they had come down into the valley of Nimrod the Lord came down and talked with the brother of Jared; and he was in a acloud, and the brother of Jared saw him not.
And it came to pass that the Lord commanded them that they should ago forth into the wilderness, yea, into that quarter where there never had man been.
And it came to pass that the Lord did go before them, and did talk with them as he stood in a bcloud, and gave cdirections whither they should travel.
And it came to pass that they did travel in the wilderness, and did abuild bbarges, in which they did cross many waters, being directed continually by the hand of the Lord.
And the Lord would not suffer that they should stop beyond the sea in the wilderness, but he would that they should come forth even unto the aland of promise, which was choice above all other lands, which the Lord God had bpreserved for a righteous people.
And he had sworn in his wrath unto the brother of Jared, that whoso should possess this land of promise, from that time henceforth and forever, should aserve him, the true and only God, or they should be bswept off when the fulness of his wrath should come upon them.
And now, we can behold the decrees of God concerning this land, that it is a land of promise; and whatsoever nation shall possess it shall serve God, or they shall be aswept off when the fulness of his bwrath shall come upon them.
And the fulness of his wrath cometh upon them when they are cripened in iniquity.
For behold, this is a land which is choice above all other lands; wherefore he that doth possess it shall serve God or shall be aswept off; for it is the everlasting decree of God.
And it is not until the bfulness of iniquity among the children of the land, that they are cswept off.
And this cometh unto you, O ye aGentiles, that ye may know the decrees of God—that ye may repent, and not continue in your iniquities until the fulness come, that ye may not bring down the fulness of the bwrath of God upon you as the inhabitants of the land have hitherto done.
Behold, this is a choice land, and whatsoever nation shall possess it shall be afree from bondage, and from captivity, and from all other nations under heaven, if they will but bserve the God of the land, who is Jesus Christ, who hath been manifested by the things which we have written.
And now I proceed with my record; for behold, it came to pass that the Lord did bring Jared and his brethren forth even to that great sea which divideth the lands.
And as they came to the sea they pitched their tents; and they called the name of the place aMoriancumer; and they dwelt in btents, and dwelt in tents upon the seashore for the space of four years.
And it came to pass at the end of four years that the Lord came again unto the brother of Jared, and stood in a cloud and atalked with him.
And for the space of three hours did the Lord talk with the brother of Jared, and bchastened him because he remembered not to ccall upon the name of the Lord.
And the brother of Jared repented of the evil which he had done, and did call upon the name of the Lord for his brethren who were with him.
And the Lord said unto him: I will forgive thee and thy brethren of their sins; but thou shalt not sin any more, for ye shall remember that my aSpirit will not always bstrive with man; wherefore, if ye will sin until ye are fully ripe ye shall be cut off from the presence of the Lord.
And these are my cthoughts upon the land which I shall give you for your inheritance; for it shall be a land dchoice above all other lands.
And the Lord said: Go to work and build, after the manner of abarges which ye have hitherto built.
And it came to pass that the brother of Jared did go to work, and also his brethren, and built barges after the manner which they had built, according to the binstructions of the Lord.
And they were small, and they were light upon the water, even like unto the lightness of a fowl upon the water.
And they were built after a manner that they were exceedingly atight, even that they would hold water like unto a dish; and the bottom thereof was tight like unto a dish; and the sides thereof were tight like unto a dish; and the ends thereof were peaked; and the top thereof was tight like unto a dish; and the length thereof was the length of a tree; and the door thereof, when it was shut, was tight like unto a dish.
And it came to pass that the brother of Jared cried unto the Lord, saying: O Lord, I have performed the work which thou hast commanded me, and I have made the barges according as thou hast directed me.
And behold, O Lord, in them there is no light; whither shall we steer?
And also we shall perish, for in them we cannot breathe, save it is the air which is in them; therefore we shall perish.
And the Lord said unto the brother of Jared: Behold, thou shalt make a hole in the top, and also in the bottom; and when thou shalt suffer for air thou shalt unstop the hole and receive air.
And if it be so that the water come in upon thee, behold, ye shall stop the hole, that ye may not perish in the flood.
And it came to pass that the brother of Jared did so, according as the Lord had commanded.
And he cried again unto the Lord saying: O Lord, behold I have done even as thou hast commanded me; and I have prepared the vessels for my people, and behold there is no light in them.
Behold, O Lord, wilt thou suffer that we shall cross this great water in darkness?
And the Lord said unto the brother of Jared: What will ye that I should do that ye may have light in your vessels?
For behold, ye cannot have awindows, for they will be dashed in pieces; neither shall ye take fire with you, for ye shall not go by the light of fire.
For behold, ye shall be as a awhale in the midst of the sea; for the mountain waves shall dash upon you.
Nevertheless, I will bring you up again out of the depths of the sea; for the bwinds have gone forth cout of my mouth, and also the drains and the floods have I sent forth.
And behold, I prepare you against these things; for ye cannot cross this great deep save I prepare you against the waves of the sea, and the winds which have gone forth, and the floods which shall come.
Therefore what will ye that I should prepare for you that ye may have light when ye are swallowed up in the depths of the sea?
 And it came to pass that the brother of Jared, (now the number of the vessels which had been prepared was eight) went forth unto the amount, which they called the mount bShelem, because of its exceeding height, and did cmolten out of a rock sixteen small stones; and they were white and clear, even as transparent dglass; and he did carry them in his hands upon the top of the mount, and cried again unto the Lord, saying: O Lord, thou hast said that we must be encompassed about by the floods.
Now behold, O Lord, and do not be aangry with thy servant because of his weakness before thee; for we know that thou art holy and dwellest in the heavens, and that we are bunworthy before thee; because of the cfall our dnatures have become evil continually; nevertheless, O Lord, thou hast given us a commandment that we must call upon thee, that from thee we may receive according to our desires.
Behold, O Lord, thou hast smitten us because of our iniquity, and hast driven us forth, and for these many years we have been in the wilderness; nevertheless, thou hast been amerciful unto us.
O Lord, look upon me in pity, and turn away thine anger from this thy people, and suffer not that they shall go forth across this raging deep in darkness; but behold these bthings which I have molten out of the rock.
And I know, O Lord, that thou hast all apower, and can do whatsoever thou wilt for the benefit of man; therefore touch these stones, O Lord, with thy bfinger, and prepare them that they may shine forth in darkness; and they shall shine forth unto us in the vessels which we have prepared, that we may have clight while we shall cross the sea.
Behold, O Lord, thou canst do this.
We know that thou art able to show forth great power, which alooks small unto the understanding of men.
And it came to pass that when the brother of Jared had said these words, behold, the aLord stretched forth his hand and touched the stones one by one with his bfinger.
And the cveil was taken from off the eyes of the brother of Jared, and he saw the finger of the Lord; and it was as the finger of a man, like unto flesh and blood; and the brother of Jared dfell down before the Lord, for he was struck with efear.
And the Lord saw that the brother of Jared had fallen to the earth; and the Lord said unto him: Arise, why hast thou fallen?
And he saith unto the Lord: I saw the finger of the Lord, and I feared lest he should asmite me; for I knew not that the Lord had flesh and blood.
And the Lord said unto him: Because of thy faith thou hast seen that I shall take upon me aflesh and blood; and never has man come before me with bsuch exceeding faith as thou hast; for were it not so ye could not have seen my finger.
Sawest thou more than this?
And he answered: Nay; Lord, ashow thyself unto me.
And the Lord said unto him: aBelievest thou the words which I shall speak?
And he answered: Yea, Lord, I know that thou speakest the truth, for thou art a God of truth, and acanst not lie.
And when he had said these words, behold, the Lord ashowed himself unto him, and said: bBecause thou knowest these things ye are redeemed from the fall; therefore ye are brought back into my cpresence; therefore I dshow myself unto you.
Behold, I am he who was aprepared from the foundation of the world to bredeem my people.
Behold, I am Jesus Christ.
I am the cFather and the Son.
In me shall all mankind have dlife, and that eternally, even they who shall believe on my name; and they shall become my esons and my daughters.
And never have I ashowed myself unto man whom I have created, for never has man bbelieved in me as thou hast.
Seest thou that ye are created after mine own cimage?
Yea, even all men were created in the beginning after mine own image.
Behold, this abody, which ye now bbehold, is the cbody of my dspirit; and man have I created after the body of my spirit; and even as I appear unto thee to be in the spirit will I appear unto my people in the flesh.
And now, as I, Moroni, said I could anot make a full account of these things which are written, therefore it sufficeth me to say that Jesus showed himself unto this man in the spirit, even after the manner and in the likeness of the same body even as he bshowed himself unto the Nephites.
And he ministered unto him even as he ministered unto the Nephites; and all this, that this man might know that he was God, because of the many great works which the Lord had showed unto him.
And because of the aknowledge of this man he could not be kept from beholding within the bveil; and he saw the finger of Jesus, which, when he saw, he fell with fear; for he knew that it was the finger of the Lord; and he had cfaith no longer, for he knew, nothing ddoubting.
Wherefore, having this perfect knowledge of God, he could anot be kept from within the veil; therefore he bsaw Jesus; and he did minister unto him.
And it came to pass that the Lord said unto the brother of Jared: Behold, thou shalt not suffer these things which ye have seen and heard to go forth unto the world, until the atime cometh that I shall glorify my name in the flesh; wherefore, ye shall btreasure up the things which ye have seen and heard, and show it to no man.
And behold, when ye shall come unto me, ye shall write them and shall seal them up, that no one can interpret them; for ye shall write them in a alanguage that they cannot be read.
And behold, these atwo stones will I give unto thee, and ye shall seal them up also with the things which ye shall write.
For behold, the alanguage which ye shall write I have confounded; wherefore I will cause in my own due time that these stones shall magnify to the eyes of men these things which ye shall write.
And when the Lord had said these words, he ashowed unto the brother of Jared ball the inhabitants of the earth which had been, and also all that would be; and he cwithheld them not from his sight, even unto the ends of the earth.
For he had said unto him in times before, that aif he would bbelieve in him that he could show unto him call things—it should be shown unto him; therefore the Lord could not withhold anything from him, for he knew that the Lord could show him all things.
And the Lord said unto him: Write these things and aseal them up; and I will show them in mine own due time unto the children of men.
And it came to pass that the Lord commanded him that he should seal up the two astones which he had received, and show them not, until the Lord should show them unto the children of bmen.
 And the Lord commanded the brother of Jared to go down out of the amount from the presence of the Lord, and bwrite the things which he had seen; and they were forbidden to come unto the children of men cuntil after that he should be lifted up upon the cross; and for this cause did king Mosiah keep them, that they should not come unto the world until after Christ should show himself unto his people.
And after Christ truly had showed himself unto his people he commanded that they should be made manifest.
And now, after that, they have all dwindled in unbelief; and there is anone save it be the Lamanites, and they have rejected the gospel of Christ; therefore I am commanded that I should bhide them up again in the earth.
Behold, I have written upon these plates the avery things which the brother of Jared saw; and there never were bgreater things made manifest than those which were made manifest unto the brother of Jared.
Wherefore the Lord hath commanded me to write them; and I have written them.
And he commanded me that I should aseal them up; and he also hath commanded that I should seal up the interpretation thereof; wherefore I have sealed up the binterpreters, according to the commandment of the Lord.
For the Lord said unto me: They shall not go forth unto the Gentiles until the day that they shall repent of their iniquity, and become clean before the Lord.
And in that day that they shall exercise afaith in me, saith the Lord, even as the brother of Jared did, that they may become bsanctified in me, then will I cmanifest unto them the things which the brother of Jared saw, even to the unfolding unto them all my drevelations, saith Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the eFather of the heavens and of the earth, and all things that in them are.
And he that will acontend against the word of the Lord, let him be accursed; and he that shall bdeny these things, let him be accursed; for unto them will I show cno greater things, saith Jesus Christ; for I am he who speaketh.
And at my command the heavens are opened and are ashut; and at my word the bearth shall shake; and at my command the inhabitants thereof shall pass away, even so as by fire.
And he that believeth not my words believeth not my disciples; and if it so be that I do not speak, judge ye; for ye shall know that it is I that speaketh, at the alast day.
But he that abelieveth these things which I have spoken, him will I visit with the manifestations of my Spirit, and he shall bknow and bear record.
For because of my Spirit he shall cknow that these things are dtrue; for it persuadeth men to do good.
And whatsoever thing persuadeth men to do good is of me; for agood cometh of none save it be of me.
I am the same that leadeth men to all good; he that will bnot believe my words will not believe me—that I am; and he that will not believe me will not believe the Father who sent me.
For behold, I am the Father, I am the clight, and the dlife, and the etruth of the world.
aCome unto me, O ye Gentiles, and I will show unto you the greater things, the knowledge which is hid up because of unbelief.
Come unto me, O ye house of Israel, and it shall be made amanifest unto you how great things the Father hath laid up for you, from the foundation of the world; and it hath not come unto you, because of unbelief.
Behold, when ye shall rend that veil of unbelief which doth cause you to remain in your awful state of wickedness, and hardness of heart, and blindness of mind, then shall the great and marvelous things which have been ahid up from the foundation of the world from you—yea, when ye shall bcall upon the Father in my name, with a broken heart and a contrite spirit, then shall ye know that the Father hath remembered the covenant which he made unto your fathers, O house of Israel.
And then shall my arevelations which I have caused to be written by my servant John be unfolded in the eyes of all the people.
Remember, when ye see these things, ye shall know that the time is at hand that they shall be made manifest in very deed.
Therefore, awhen ye shall receive this record ye may know that the work of the Father has commenced upon all the face of the land.
Therefore, arepent all ye ends of the earth, and come unto me, and believe in my gospel, and be bbaptized in my name; for he that believeth and is baptized shall be saved; but he that believeth not shall be damned; and csigns shall follow them that believe in my name.
And blessed is he that is found afaithful unto my name at the last day, for he shall be blifted up to dwell in the kingdom prepared for him cfrom the foundation of the world.
And behold it is I that hath spoken it.
Amen.
 And now I, Moroni, have written the words which were commanded me, according to my memory; and I have told you the things which I have asealed up; therefore touch them not in order that ye may translate; for that thing is forbidden you, except by and by it shall be wisdom in God.
And behold, ye may be privileged that ye may show the plates unto athose who shall assist to bring forth this work; And unto athree shall they be shown by the power of God; wherefore they shall bknow of a surety that these things are ctrue.
And in the mouth of three awitnesses shall these things be established; and the btestimony of three, and this work, in the which shall be shown forth the power of God and also his word, of which the Father, and the Son, and the Holy Ghost bear record—and all this shall stand as a testimony against the world at the last day.
And if it so be that they repent and acome unto the Father in the name of Jesus, they shall be received into the kingdom of God.
And now, if I have no authority for these things, judge ye; for ye shall know that I have authority when ye shall see me, and we shall stand before God at the last day.
Amen.
 And now I, Moroni, proceed to give the record of aJared and his brother.
For it came to pass after the Lord had prepared the astones which the brother of Jared had carried up into the mount, the brother of Jared came down out of the mount, and he did put forth the stones into the vessels which were prepared, one in each end thereof; and behold, they did give light unto the vessels.
And thus the Lord caused stones to shine in darkness, to give light unto men, women, and children, that they might not cross the great waters in darkness.
And it came to pass that when they had prepared all manner of afood, that thereby they might subsist upon the water, and also food for their flocks and herds, and bwhatsoever beast or animal or fowl that they should carry with them—and it came to pass that when they had done all these things they got aboard of their vessels or barges, and set forth into the sea, commending themselves unto the Lord their God.
And it came to pass that the Lord God caused that there should be a afurious wind blow upon the face of the waters, btowards the promised land; and thus they were tossed upon the waves of the sea before the wind.
And it came to pass that they were many times buried in the depths of the sea, because of the mountain waves which broke upon them, and also the great and terrible tempests which were caused by the fierceness of the wind.
And it came to pass that when they were buried in the deep there was no water that could hurt them, their vessels being atight like unto a dish, and also they were tight like unto the bark of Noah; therefore when they were encompassed about by many waters they did cry unto the Lord, and he did bring them forth again upon the top of the waters.
And it came to pass that the wind did never cease to blow towards the promised land while they were upon the waters; and thus they were adriven forth before the wind.
And they did asing praises unto the Lord; yea, the brother of Jared did sing praises unto the Lord, and he did bthank and praise the Lord all the day long; and when the night came, they did not cease to praise the Lord.
And thus they were driven forth; and no monster of the sea could break them, neither awhale that could mar them; and they did have light continually, whether it was above the water or under the water.
And thus they were driven forth, athree hundred and forty and four days upon the water.
And they did aland upon the shore of the bpromised land.
And when they had set their feet upon the shores of the promised land they bowed themselves down upon the face of the land, and did humble themselves before the Lord, and did shed tears of joy before the Lord, because of the multitude of his ctender mercies over them.
And it came to pass that they went forth upon the face of the land, and began to till the earth.
And Jared had four asons; and they were called Jacom, and Gilgah, and Mahah, and Orihah.
And the brother of Jared also begat sons and daughters.
And the afriends of Jared and his brother were in number about twenty and two souls; and they also begat sons and daughters before they came to the promised land; and therefore they began to be many.
And they were taught to awalk humbly before the Lord; and they were also btaught from on high.
And it came to pass that they began to spread upon the face of the land, and to multiply and to till the earth; and they did wax strong in the land.
And the brother of Jared began to be old, and saw that he must soon go down to the grave; wherefore he said unto Jared: Let us gather together our people that we may number them, that we may know of them what they will desire of us before we go down to our graves.
And accordingly the people were gathered together.
Now the number of the sons and the daughters of the brother of Jared were twenty and two souls; and the number of sons and daughters of Jared were twelve, he having four sons.
And it came to pass that they did number their people; and after that they had numbered them, they did desire of them the things which they would that they should do before they went down to their graves.
And it came to pass that the people desired of them that they should aanoint one of their sons to be a king over them.
And now behold, this was grievous unto them.
And the brother of Jared said unto them: Surely this thing aleadeth into captivity.
But Jared said unto his brother: Suffer them that they may have a king.
And therefore he said unto them: Choose ye out from among our sons a king, even whom ye will.
And it came to pass that they chose even the firstborn of the brother of Jared; and his name was Pagag.
And it came to pass that he refused and would not be their aking.
And the people would that his father should constrain him, but his father would not; and he commanded them that they should constrain no man to be their king.
And it came to pass that they chose all the brothers of Pagag, and they would not.
And it came to pass that neither would the asons of Jared, even all save it were one; and bOrihah was anointed to be king over the people.
And he began to reign, and the people began to aprosper; and they became exceedingly rich.
And it came to pass that Jared died, and his brother also.
And it came to pass that Orihah did walk humbly before the Lord, and did remember how great things the Lord had done for his father, and also taught his people how great things the Lord had done for their fathers.
 And it came to pass that Orihah did execute judgment upon the land in righteousness all his days, whose days were exceedingly many.
And he begat sons and daughters; yea, he begat thirty and one, among whom were twenty and three sons.
And it came to pass that he also begat aKib in his bold age.
And it came to pass that Kib reigned in his stead; and Kib begat Corihor.
And when Corihor was thirty and two years old he rebelled against his father, and went over and dwelt in the land of Nehor; and he begat sons and daughters, and they became exceedingly fair; wherefore Corihor drew away many people after him.
And when he had gathered together an army he came up unto the land of aMoron where the king dwelt, and took him captive, which bbrought to pass the saying of the brother of Jared that they would be brought into captivity.
Now the aland of Moron, where the king dwelt, was near the land which is called Desolation by the Nephites.
And it came to pass that Kib dwelt in acaptivity, and his people under Corihor his son, until he became exceedingly old; nevertheless Kib begat Shule in his old age, while he was yet in captivity.
And it came to pass that Shule was angry with his brother; and Shule waxed strong, and became mighty as to the strength of a man; and he was also mighty in judgment.
Wherefore, he came to the hill Ephraim, and he did molten out of the hill, and made swords out of asteel for those whom he had drawn away with him; and after he had armed them with swords he returned to the city Nehor, and gave battle unto his brother Corihor, by which means he obtained the kingdom and restored it unto his father Kib.
And now because of the thing which Shule had done, his father bestowed upon him the kingdom; therefore he began to reign in the stead of his father.
And it came to pass that he did execute judgment in righteousness; and he did spread his kingdom upon all the face of the land, for the people had become exceedingly numerous.
And it came to pass that Shule also begat many sons and daughters.
And Corihor repented of the many evils which he had done; wherefore Shule gave him power in his kingdom.
And it came to pass that Corihor had many sons and daughters.
And among the sons of Corihor there was one whose name was Noah.
And it came to pass that Noah rebelled against Shule, the king, and also his father Corihor, and drew away Cohor his brother, and also all his brethren and many of the people.
And he gave battle unto Shule, the king, in which he did obtain the land of their afirst inheritance; and he became a king over that part of the land.
And it came to pass that he gave battle again unto Shule, the king; and he took Shule, the king, and carried him away captive into Moron.
And it came to pass as he was about to put him to death, the sons of Shule crept into the house of Noah by night and slew him, and broke down the door of the prison and brought out their father, and placed him upon his throne in his own kingdom.
Wherefore, the son of Noah did build up his kingdom in his stead; nevertheless they did not gain power any more over Shule the king, and the people who were under the reign of Shule the king did prosper exceedingly and wax great.
And the country was adivided; and there were two kingdoms, the kingdom of Shule, and the kingdom of Cohor, the son of Noah.
And Cohor, the son of Noah, caused that his people should give battle unto Shule, in which Shule did beat them and did slay Cohor.
And now Cohor had a son who was called Nimrod; and Nimrod gave up the kingdom of Cohor unto Shule, and he did gain favor in the eyes of Shule; wherefore Shule did bestow great favors upon him, and he did do in the kingdom of Shule according to his desires.
And also in the reign of Shule there came aprophets among the people, who were sent from the Lord, prophesying that the wickedness and bidolatry of the people was bringing a curse upon the land, and they should be destroyed if they did not repent.
And it came to pass that the people did arevile against the prophets, and did mock them.
And it came to pass that king Shule did execute judgment against all those who did revile against the prophets.
And he did execute a law throughout all the land, which gave power unto the prophets that they should go whithersoever they would; and by this cause the people were brought unto repentance.
And because the people did repent of their iniquities and idolatries the Lord did spare them, and they began to prosper again in the land.
And it came to pass that Shule abegat sons and daughters in his old age.
And there were no more wars in the days of Shule; and he remembered the great things that the Lord had done for his fathers in bringing them aacross the great deep into the promised land; wherefore he did execute judgment in righteousness all his days.
 And now I, Moroni, proceed with my record.
Therefore, behold, it came to pass that because of the asecret combinations of Akish and his friends, behold, they did overthrow the kingdom of Omer.
Nevertheless, the Lord was merciful unto Omer, and also to his sons and to his daughters who did not seek his destruction.
And the Lord awarned Omer in a dream that he should depart out of the land; wherefore Omer bdeparted out of the land with his family, and traveled many days, and came over and passed by the hill of cShim, and came over by the place dwhere the Nephites were destroyed, and from thence eastward, and came to a place which was called Ablom, by the seashore, and there he pitched his tent, and also his sons and his daughters, and all his household, save it were Jared and his family.
And it came to pass that Jared was anointed king over the people, by the hand of wickedness; and he gave unto Akish his daughter to wife.
And it came to pass that Akish asought the life of his father-in-law; and he applied unto those whom he had sworn by the boath of the ancients, and they obtained the head of his father-in-law, as he sat upon his throne, giving audience to his people.
For so great had been the spreading of this wicked and secret society that it had corrupted the hearts of all the people; therefore Jared was murdered upon his throne, and Akish reigned in his stead.
And it came to pass that Akish began to be ajealous of his son, therefore he shut him up in prison, and kept him upon little or no food until he had suffered death.
And now the brother of him that suffered death, (and his name was Nimrah) was angry with his father because of that which his father had done unto his brother.
And it came to pass that Nimrah gathered together a small number of men, and fled out of the land, and came over and dwelt with Omer.
And it came to pass that Akish begat other sons, and they won the hearts of the people, notwithstanding they had sworn unto him to do all manner of iniquity according to that which he desired.
Now the people of Akish were desirous for gain, even as Akish was desirous for apower; wherefore, the sons of Akish did offer them bmoney, by which means they drew away the more part of the people after them.
And there began to be a war between the sons of Akish and Akish, which lasted for the space of many years, yea, unto the destruction of nearly all the people of the kingdom, yea, even all, save it were thirty souls, and they who fled with the house of Omer.
Wherefore, Omer was restored again to the aland of his inheritance.
And it came to pass that Omer began to be old; nevertheless, in his old age he begat Emer; and he anointed Emer to be king to reign in his stead.
And after that he had anointed Emer to be king he saw peace in the land for the space of two years, and he died, having seen exceedingly many days, which were full of sorrow.
And it came to pass that Emer did reign in his stead, and did fill the steps of his father.
And the Lord began again to take the curse from off the land, and the house of Emer did prosper exceedingly under the reign of Emer; and in the space of sixty and two years they had become exceedingly strong, insomuch that they became exceedingly rich— Having aall manner of fruit, and of grain, and of bsilks, and of fine linen, and of cgold, and of silver, and of precious things; And also aall manner of cattle, of oxen, and cows, and of sheep, and of swine, and of goats, and also many other kinds of animals which were useful for the food of man.
And they also had ahorses, and asses, and there were elephants and cureloms and cumoms; all of which were useful unto man, and more especially the elephants and cureloms and cumoms.
And thus the Lord did pour out his blessings upon this land, which was achoice above all other lands; and he commanded that whoso should possess the land should possess it unto the Lord, or they should be bdestroyed when they were ripened in iniquity; for upon such, saith the Lord: I will pour out the fulness of my wrath.
And Emer did execute judgment in righteousness all his days, and he begat many sons and daughters; and he begat Coriantum, and he anointed Coriantum to reign in his stead.
And after he had anointed Coriantum to reign in his stead he lived four years, and he saw peace in the land; yea, and he even saw the aSon of Righteousness, and did rejoice and glory in his day; and he died in peace.
And it came to pass that Coriantum did walk in the steps of his father, and did build many mighty cities, and did administer that which was good unto his people in all his days.
And it came to pass that he had no children even until he was exceedingly aold.
And it came to pass that his wife died, being an hundred and two years old.
And it came to pass that Coriantum took to wife, in his old age, a young maid, and begat sons and daughters; wherefore he lived until he was an hundred and forty and two years old.
And it came to pass that he begat Com, and Com reigned in his stead; and he reigned forty and nine years, and he begat Heth; and he also begat other sons and daughters.
And the people had spread again over all the face of the land, and there began again to be an exceedingly great wickedness upon the face of the land, and aHeth began to embrace the secret plans again of old, to destroy his father.
And it came to pass that he did dethrone his father, for he slew him with his own sword; and he did reign in his stead.
And there came prophets in the land aagain, crying repentance unto them—that they must prepare the way of the Lord or there should come a curse upon the face of the land; yea, even there should be a great famine, in which they should be destroyed if they did not repent.
But the people believed not the words of the prophets, but they cast them out; and some of them they cast into apits and left them to perish.
And it came to pass that they did all these things according to the commandment of the king, Heth.
And it came to pass that there began to be a great adearth upon the land, and the inhabitants began to be destroyed exceedingly fast because of the dearth, for there was no rain upon the face of the earth.
And there came forth apoisonous serpents also upon the face of the land, and did poison many people.
And it came to pass that their flocks began to flee before the poisonous serpents, towards the land bsouthward, which was called by the Nephites cZarahemla.
And it came to pass that there were many of them which did perish by the way; nevertheless, there were some which fled into the land southward.
And it came to pass that the Lord did cause the aserpents that they should pursue them no more, but that they should hedge up the way that the people could not pass, that whoso should attempt to pass might fall by the poisonous serpents.
And it came to pass that the people did follow the course of the beasts, and did devour the acarcasses of them which fell by the way, until they had devoured them all.
Now when the people saw that they must bperish they began to crepent of their iniquities and cry unto the Lord.
And it came to pass that when they had ahumbled themselves sufficiently before the Lord he did send rain upon the face of the earth; and the people began to revive again, and there began to be fruit in the north countries, and in all the countries round about.
And the Lord did show forth his power unto them in preserving them from famine.
The Book of Mormon is a sacred record of peoples in ancient America and was engraved upon metal plates.
Sources from which this record was compiled include the following:The Plates of Nephi, which were of two kinds: the small plates and the large plates.
The former were more particularly devoted to spiritual matters and the ministry and teachings of the prophets, while the latter were occupied mostly by a secular history of the peoples concerned ( Nephi :–).
From the time of Mosiah, however, the large plates also included items of major spiritual importance.The Plates of Mormon, which consist of an abridgment by Mormon from the large plates of Nephi, with many commentaries.
These plates also contained a continuation of the history by Mormon and additions by his son Moroni.The Plates of Ether, which present a history of the Jaredites.
This record was abridged by Moroni, who inserted comments of his own and incorporated the record with the general history under the title “Book of Ether.”The Plates of Brass brought by the people of Lehi from Jerusalem in  B.C.
These contained “the five books of Moses, … and also a record of the Jews from the beginning, … down to the commencement of the reign of Zedekiah, king of Judah; and also the prophecies of the holy prophets” ( Nephi :–).
Many quotations from these plates, citing Isaiah and other biblical and nonbiblical prophets, appear in the Book of Mormon.The Book of Mormon comprises fifteen main parts or divisions, known, with one exception, as books, usually designated by the name of their principal author.
The first portion (the first six books, ending with Omni) is a translation from the small plates of Nephi.
Between the books of Omni and Mosiah is an insert called the Words of Mormon.
This insert connects the record engraved on the small plates with Mormon’s abridgment of the large plates.The longest portion, from Mosiah through Mormon chapter , is a translation of Mormon’s abridgment of the large plates of Nephi.
The concluding portion, from Mormon chapter  to the end of the volume, was engraved by Mormon’s son Moroni, who, after finishing the record of his father’s life, made an abridgment of the Jaredite record (as the book of Ether) and later added the parts known as the book of Moroni.In or about the year A.D. , Moroni, the last of the Nephite prophet-historians, sealed the sacred record and hid it up unto the Lord, to be brought forth in the latter days, as predicted by the voice of God through His ancient prophets.
In A.D. , this same Moroni, then a resurrected personage, visited the Prophet Joseph Smith and subsequently delivered the engraved plates to him.About this edition: The original title page, immediately preceding the contents page, is taken from the plates and is part of the sacred text.
Introductions in a non-italic typeface, such as in  Nephi and immediately preceding Mosiah chapter , are also part of the sacred text.
Introductions in italics, such as in chapter headings, are not original to the text but are study helps included for convenience in reading.Some minor errors in the text have been perpetuated in past editions of the Book of Mormon.
This edition contains corrections that seem appropriate to bring the material into conformity with prepublication manuscripts and early editions edited by the Prophet Joseph Smith.
 And now behold, it came to pass in the commencement of the fortieth year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi, there began to be a serious difficulty among the people of the Nephites.
For behold, aPahoran had died, and gone the way of all the earth; therefore there began to be a serious contention concerning who should have the judgment-seat among the brethren, who were the sons of Pahoran.
Now these are their names who did contend for the judgment-seat, who did also cause the people to contend: Pahoran, Paanchi, and Pacumeni.
Now these are not all the sons of Pahoran (for he had many), but these are they who did contend for the judgment-seat; therefore, they did cause three adivisions among the people.
Nevertheless, it came to pass that Pahoran was appointed by the avoice of the people to be chief judge and a governor over the people of Nephi.
And it came to pass that Pacumeni, when he saw that he could not obtain the judgment-seat, he did aunite with the voice of the people.
But behold, Paanchi, and that part of the people that were desirous that he should be their governor, was exceedingly wroth; therefore, he was about to aflatter away those people to rise up in rebellion against their brethren.
And it came to pass as he was about to do this, behold, he was taken, and was tried according to the avoice of the people, and condemned unto death; for he had raised up in rebellion and sought to destroy the bliberty of the people.
Now when those people who were desirous that he should be their governor saw that he was condemned unto death, therefore they were angry, and behold, they sent forth one aKishkumen, even to the judgment-seat of Pahoran, and murdered Pahoran as he sat upon the judgment-seat.
And he was pursued by the servants of Pahoran; but behold, so speedy was the flight of Kishkumen that no man could overtake him.
And he went unto those that sent him, and they all entered into a covenant, yea, aswearing by their everlasting Maker, that they would tell no man that Kishkumen had murdered Pahoran.
Therefore, Kishkumen was not known among the people of Nephi, for he was in disguise at the time that he murdered Pahoran.
And Kishkumen and his band, who had covenanted with him, did mingle themselves among the people, in a manner that they all could not be found; but as many as were found were condemned unto adeath.
And now behold, Pacumeni was appointed, according to the avoice of the people, to be a chief judge and a governor over the people, to reign in the stead of his brother Pahoran; and it was according to his right.
And all this was done in the fortieth year of the reign of the judges; and it had an end.
And it came to pass in the forty and first year of the reign of the judges, that the Lamanites had gathered together an innumerable army of men, and aarmed them with swords, and with cimeters and with bows, and with arrows, and with head-plates, and with breastplates, and with all manner of shields of every kind.
And they came down again that they might pitch battle against the Nephites.
And they were led by a man whose name was aCoriantumr; and he was a descendant of Zarahemla; and he was a bdissenter from among the Nephites; and he was a large and a mighty man.
Therefore, the king of the Lamanites, whose name was Tubaloth, who was the son of aAmmoron, supposing that Coriantumr, being a mighty man, could stand against the Nephites, with his strength and also with his great bwisdom, insomuch that by sending him forth he should gain power over the Nephites— Therefore he did astir them up to anger, and he did gather together his armies, and he did appoint Coriantumr to be their leader, and did cause that they should march down to the land of Zarahemla to battle against the Nephites.
And it came to pass that because of so much contention and so much difficulty in the government, that they had not kept sufficient guards in the land of Zarahemla; for they had supposed that the Lamanites durst not come into the heart of their lands to attack that great city Zarahemla.
But it came to pass that Coriantumr did march forth at the head of his numerous host, and came upon the inhabitants of the city, and their march was with such exceedingly great speed that there was no time for the Nephites to gather together their armies.
Therefore Coriantumr did cut down the watch by the entrance of the city, and did march forth with his whole army into the city, and they did slay every one who did oppose them, insomuch that they did take possession of the whole city.
And it came to pass that Pacumeni, who was the chief judge, did flee before Coriantumr, even to the walls of the city.
And it came to pass that Coriantumr did smite him against the wall, insomuch that he died.
And thus ended the days of Pacumeni.
And now when Coriantumr saw that he was in possession of the city of Zarahemla, and saw that the Nephites had fled before them, and were slain, and were taken, and were cast into prison, and that he had obtained the possession of the strongest hold in all the land, his heart atook courage insomuch that he was about to go forth against all the land.
And now he did not tarry in the land of Zarahemla, but he did march forth with a large army, even towards the city of aBountiful; for it was his determination to go forth and cut his way through with the sword, that he might obtain the north parts of the land.
And, supposing that their greatest strength was in the center of the land, therefore he did march forth, giving them no time to assemble themselves together save it were in small bodies; and in this manner they did fall upon them and cut them down to the earth.
But behold, this march of Coriantumr through the center of the land gave Moronihah great advantage over them, notwithstanding the greatness of the number of the Nephites who were slain.
For behold, Moronihah had supposed that the Lamanites durst not come into the center of the land, but that they would attack the cities round about in the borders as they had hitherto done; therefore Moronihah had caused that their strong armies should maintain those parts round about by the borders.
But behold, the Lamanites were not frightened according to his desire, but they had come into the center of the land, and had taken the capital city which was the city of Zarahemla, and were marching through the most capital parts of the land, slaying the people with a great slaughter, both men, women, and children, taking possession of many cities and of many strongholds.
But when Moronihah had discovered this, he immediately sent forth Lehi with an army round about to ahead them before they should come to the land Bountiful.
And thus he did; and he did head them before they came to the land Bountiful, and gave unto them battle, insomuch that they began to retreat back towards the land of Zarahemla.
And it came to pass that Moronihah did head them in their retreat, and did give unto them battle, insomuch that it became an exceedingly bloody battle; yea, many were slain, and among the number who were slain aCoriantumr was also found.
And now, behold, the Lamanites could not retreat either way, neither on the north, nor on the south, nor on the east, nor on the west, for they were surrounded on every hand by the Nephites.
And thus had Coriantumr plunged the Lamanites into the midst of the Nephites, insomuch that they were in the power of the Nephites, and he himself was slain, and the Lamanites did ayield themselves into the hands of the Nephites.
And it came to pass that Moronihah took possession of the city of Zarahemla again, and caused that the Lamanites who had been taken prisoners should depart out of the land in apeace.
And thus ended the forty and first year of the reign of the judges.
 And it came to pass that there arose a division among the people, insomuch that they divided hither and thither and went their ways, leaving Nephi alone, as he was standing in the midst of them.
And it came to pass that Nephi went his way towards his own house, apondering upon the things which the Lord had shown unto him.
And it came to pass as he was thus pondering—being much cast down because of the wickedness of the people of the Nephites, their secret works of darkness, and their murderings, and their plunderings, and all manner of iniquities—and it came to pass as he was thus pondering in his heart, behold, a avoice came unto him saying: aBlessed art thou, Nephi, for those things which thou hast done; for I have beheld how thou hast with bunwearyingness declared the word, which I have given unto thee, unto this people.
And thou hast not feared them, and hast not sought thine cown life, but hast sought my dwill, and to keep my commandments.
And now, because thou hast done this with such unwearyingness, behold, I will bless thee forever; and I will make thee mighty in word and in deed, in faith and in works; yea, even that aall things shall be bdone unto thee according to thy cword, for thou shalt dnot ask that which is contrary to my will.
Behold, thou art Nephi, and I am God.
Behold, I declare it unto thee in the presence of mine angels, that ye shall have power over this people, and shall smite the earth with afamine, and with pestilence, and destruction, according to the wickedness of this people.
Behold, I give unto you apower, that whatsoever ye shall bseal on earth shall be sealed in heaven; and whatsoever ye shall loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven; and thus shall ye have power among this people.
And thus, if ye shall say unto this temple it shall be rent in twain, it shall be done.
And if ye shall say unto this amountain, Be thou cast down and become smooth, it shall be done.
And behold, if ye shall say that God shall smite this people, it shall come to pass.
And now behold, I command you, that ye shall go and declare unto this people, that thus saith the Lord God, who is the Almighty: Except ye repent ye shall be smitten, even unto adestruction.
And behold, now it came to pass that when the Lord had spoken these words unto Nephi, he did stop and did not go unto his own house, but did return unto the multitudes who were scattered about upon the face of the land, and began to declare unto them the word of the Lord which had been spoken unto him, concerning their destruction if they did not repent.
Now behold, anotwithstanding that great miracle which Nephi had done in telling them concerning the death of the chief judge, they did harden their hearts and did not hearken unto the words of the Lord.
Therefore Nephi did declare unto them the word of the Lord, saying: Except ye repent, thus saith the Lord, ye shall be asmitten even unto destruction.
And it came to pass that when Nephi had declared unto them the word, behold, they did still harden their hearts and would not hearken unto his words; therefore they did arevile against him, and did seek to lay their hands upon him that they might cast him into prison.
But behold, the power of God was with him, and they could not take him to cast him into prison, for he was taken by the Spirit and aconveyed away out of the midst of them.
And it came to pass that thus he did go forth in the Spirit, from multitude to multitude, declaring the word of God, even until he had declared it unto them all, or sent it forth among all the people.
And it came to pass that they would not hearken unto his words; and there began to be contentions, insomuch that they were divided against themselves and began to slay one another with the sword.
And thus ended the seventy and first year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi.
 And now it came to pass in the seventy and second year of the reign of the judges that the contentions did increase, insomuch that there were wars throughout all the land among all the people of Nephi.
And it was this asecret band of robbers who did carry on this work of destruction and wickedness.
And this war did last all that year; and in the seventy and third year it did also last.
And it came to pass that in this year Nephi did cry unto the Lord, saying: O Lord, do not suffer that this people shall be destroyed by the sword; but O Lord, rather alet there be a bfamine in the land, to stir them up in remembrance of the Lord their God, and perhaps they will repent and turn unto thee.
And so it was done, according to the words of Nephi.
And there was a great famine upon the land, among all the people of Nephi.
And thus in the seventy and fourth year the famine did continue, and the work of destruction did cease by the sword but became sore by famine.
And this work of destruction did also continue in the seventy and fifth year.
For the earth was smitten that it was adry, and did not yield forth grain in the season of grain; and the whole earth was smitten, even among the Lamanites as well as among the Nephites, so that they were smitten that they did perish by thousands in the more wicked parts of the land.
And it came to pass that the people saw that they were about to perish by famine, and they began to aremember the Lord their God; and they began to remember the words of Nephi.
And the people abegan to plead with their chief judges and their leaders, that they would say unto Nephi: Behold, we know that thou art a man of God, and therefore cry unto the Lord our God that he turn away from us this famine, lest all the words which thou hast spoken concerning our bdestruction be fulfilled.
And it came to pass that the judges did say unto Nephi, according to the words which had been desired.
And it came to pass that when Nephi saw that the people had arepented and did humble themselves in sackcloth, he cried again unto the Lord, saying: O Lord, behold this people repenteth; and they have swept away the band of Gadianton from amongst them insomuch that they have become extinct, and they have concealed their secret plans in the earth.
Now, O Lord, because of this their humility wilt thou turn away thine anger, and let thine anger be appeased in the destruction of those wicked men whom thou hast already destroyed.
O Lord, wilt thou turn away thine anger, yea, thy fierce anger, and cause that this famine may cease in this land.
O Lord, wilt thou hearken unto me, and cause that it may be done according to my words, and send forth arain upon the face of the earth, that she may bring forth her fruit, and her grain in the season of grain.
O Lord, thou didst hearken unto amy words when I said, Let there be a famine, that the pestilence of the sword might cease; and I know that thou wilt, even at this time, hearken unto my words, for thou saidst that: If this people repent I will spare them.
Yea, O Lord, and thou seest that they have repented, because of the famine and the pestilence and destruction which has come unto them.
And now, O Lord, wilt thou turn away thine anger, and try again if they will serve thee?
And if so, O Lord, thou canst bless them according to thy words which thou hast said.
And it came to pass that in the seventy and sixth year the Lord did turn away his anger from the people, and caused that arain should fall upon the earth, insomuch that it did bring forth her fruit in the season of her fruit.
And it came to pass that it did bring forth her grain in the season of her grain.
And behold, the people did rejoice and glorify God, and the whole face of the land was filled with rejoicing; and they did no more seek to destroy Nephi, but they did esteem him as a agreat prophet, and a man of God, having great power and authority given unto him from God.
And behold, Lehi, his brother, was not a awhit behind him as to things pertaining to righteousness.
And thus it did come to pass that the people of Nephi began to prosper again in the land, and began to build up their waste places, and began to multiply and spread, even until they did acover the whole face of the land, both on the northward and on the southward, from the sea west to the sea east.
And it came to pass that the seventy and sixth year did end in peace.
And the seventy and seventh year began in peace; and the achurch did spread throughout the face of all the land; and the more part of the people, both the Nephites and the Lamanites, did belong to the church; and they did have exceedingly great peace in the land; and thus ended the seventy and seventh year.
And also they had peace in the seventy and eighth year, save it were a few contentions concerning the points of doctrine which had been laid down by the prophets.
And in the seventy and ninth year there began to be much strife.
But it came to pass that Nephi and Lehi, and many of their brethren who knew concerning the true points of doctrine, having many arevelations daily, therefore they did preach unto the people, insomuch that they did put an end to their strife in that same year.
And it came to pass that in the eightieth year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi, there were a certain number of the dissenters from the people of Nephi, who had some years before gone over unto the Lamanites, and taken upon themselves the name of Lamanites, and also a certain number who were real descendants of the Lamanites, being stirred up to anger by them, or by those dissenters, therefore they commenced a awar with their brethren.
And they did commit murder and plunder; and then they would retreat back into the mountains, and into the wilderness and secret places, hiding themselves that they could not be discovered, receiving daily an addition to their numbers, inasmuch as there were dissenters that went forth unto them.
And thus in time, yea, even in the space of anot many years, they became an exceedingly great band of robbers; and they did search out all the bsecret plans of Gadianton; and thus they became robbers of Gadianton.
Now behold, these robbers did make great havoc, yea, even great destruction among the people of Nephi, and also among the people of the Lamanites.
And it came to pass that it was expedient that there should be a stop put to this work of destruction; therefore they sent an army of strong men into the wilderness and upon the mountains to search out this band of robbers, and to destroy them.
But behold, it came to pass that in that same year they were driven back even into their own lands.
And thus ended the eightieth year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi.
And it came to pass in the commencement of the eighty and first year they did go forth again against this band of robbers, and did destroy many; and they were also visited with much destruction.
And they were again obliged to return out of the wilderness and out of the amountains unto their own lands, because of the exceeding greatness of the numbers of those robbers who infested the mountains and the wilderness.
And it came to pass that thus ended this year.
And the robbers did still increase and wax strong, insomuch that they did defy the whole armies of the Nephites, and also of the Lamanites; and they did cause great fear to come unto the people upon all the face of the land.
Yea, for they did visit many parts of the land, and did do great destruction unto them; yea, did kill many, and did carry away others captive into the wilderness, yea, and more especially their women and their children.
Now this great evil, which came unto the people because of their iniquity, did stir them up again in aremembrance of the Lord their God.
And thus ended the eighty and first year of the reign of the judges.
And in the eighty and second year they began again to aforget the Lord their God.
And in the eighty and third year they began to wax strong in iniquity.
And in the eighty and fourth year they did not mend their ways.
And it came to pass in the eighty and fifth year they did wax stronger and stronger in their pride, and in their wickedness; and thus they were aripening again for destruction.
And thus ended the eighty and fifth year.
 And thus we can behold how false, and also the unsteadiness of the hearts of the children of men; yea, we can see that the Lord in his great infinite goodness doth bless and aprosper those who put their btrust in him.
Yea, and we may see at the very atime when he doth bprosper his people, yea, in the increase of their fields, their flocks and their herds, and in gold, and in silver, and in all manner of cprecious things of every kind and art; sparing their lives, and delivering them out of the hands of their enemies; softening the hearts of their enemies that they should not declare wars against them; yea, and in fine, doing all things for the welfare and happiness of his people; yea, then is the time that they do dharden their hearts, and do eforget the Lord their God, and do ftrample under their feet the Holy One—yea, and this because of their ease, and their exceedingly great prosperity.
And thus we see that except the Lord doth achasten his people with many afflictions, yea, except he doth visit them with bdeath and with terror, and with famine and with all manner of pestilence, they will not cremember him.
O how afoolish, and how vain, and how evil, and devilish, and how bquick to do iniquity, and how slow to do good, are the children of men; yea, how quick to hearken unto the words of the evil one, and to set their chearts upon the vain things of the world!
Yea, how quick to be lifted up in apride; yea, how quick to bboast, and do all manner of that which is iniquity; and how slow are they to remember the Lord their God, and to give ear unto his counsels, yea, how slow to cwalk in wisdom’s paths!
Behold, they do not desire that the Lord their God, who hath acreated them, should brule and reign over them; notwithstanding his great goodness and his mercy towards them, they do set at cnaught his counsels, and they will not that he should be their guide.
O how great is the anothingness of the children of men; yea, even they are bless than the dust of the earth.
For behold, the dust of the earth moveth hither and thither, to the dividing asunder, at the command of our great and everlasting God.
Yea, behold at his avoice do the hills and the mountains tremble and bquake.
And by the apower of his voice they are broken up, and become smooth, yea, even like unto a valley.
Yea, by the power of his voice doth the awhole earth shake; Yea, by the power of his voice, do the foundations rock, even to the very center.
Yea, and if he say unto the earth—Move—it is moved.
Yea, if he say unto the aearth—Thou shalt bgo back, that it clengthen out the day for many hours—it is done; And thus, according to his word the aearth goeth back, and it appeareth unto man that the bsun standeth still; yea, and behold, this is so; for surely it is the earth that moveth and not the sun.
And behold, also, if he say unto the awaters of the great deep—bBe thou dried up—it is done.
Behold, if he say unto this mountain—Be thou raised up, and acome over and fall upon that city, that it be buried up—behold it is done.
And behold, if a man ahide up a treasure in the earth, and the Lord shall say—Let it be baccursed, because of the iniquity of him who hath hid it up—behold, it shall be accursed.
And if the Lord shall say—Be thou accursed, that no man shall find thee from this time henceforth and forever—behold, no man getteth it henceforth and forever.
And behold, if the Lord shall say unto a man—Because of thine iniquities, thou shalt be accursed aforever—it shall be done.
And if the Lord shall say—Because of thine iniquities thou shalt be acut off from my presence—he will cause that it shall be so.
And wo unto him to whom he shall say this, for it shall be unto him that will do iniquity, and he cannot be asaved; therefore, for this cause, that men might be saved, hath repentance been declared.
Therefore, blessed are they who will repent and hearken unto the voice of the Lord their God; for these are they that shall be saved.
And may God grant, in his great fulness, that men might be brought unto repentance and good works, that they might be restored unto grace for agrace, according to their works.
And I would that all men might be saved.
But we read that in the agreat and last day there are some who shall be cast out, yea, who shall be cast off from the bpresence of the Lord; Yea, who shall be consigned to a state of endless misery, fulfilling the words which say: They that have done good shall have aeverlasting life; and they that have done evil shall have everlasting bdamnation.
And thus it is.
Amen.
 And now it came to pass in the eighty and sixth year, the Nephites did still remain in wickedness, yea, in great wickedness, while the aLamanites did observe strictly to keep the commandments of God, according to the law of Moses.
And it came to pass that in this year there was one aSamuel, a bLamanite, came into the land of Zarahemla, and began to preach unto the people.
And it came to pass that he did preach, many days, repentance unto the people, and they did ccast him out, and he was about to dreturn to his own land.
But behold, the avoice of the Lord came unto him, that he should return again, and prophesy unto the people whatsoever things should come into his bheart.
And it came to pass that they would not suffer that he should enter into the city; therefore he went and got upon the awall thereof, and stretched forth his hand and cried with a loud voice, and bprophesied unto the people whatsoever things the Lord put into his heart.
And he said unto them: Behold, I, Samuel, a Lamanite, do speak the words of the Lord which he doth put into my heart; and behold he hath put it into my heart to say unto this people that the asword of justice hangeth over this people; and four hundred years pass not away save the sword of justice falleth upon this people.
Yea, heavy adestruction awaiteth this people, and it surely cometh unto this people, and nothing can save this people save it be repentance and faith on the Lord Jesus Christ, who surely shall come into the world, and shall suffer many things and shall be slain for his people.
And behold, an aangel of the Lord hath declared it unto me, and he did bring bglad tidings to my soul.
And behold, I was sent unto you to declare it unto you also, that ye might have glad tidings; but behold ye would cnot receive me.
Therefore, thus saith the Lord: Because of the hardness of the hearts of the people of the Nephites, except they repent I will take away my word from them, and I will awithdraw my Spirit from them, and I will suffer them no longer, and I will turn the hearts of their brethren against them.
And afour hundred years shall not pass away before I will cause that they shall be smitten; yea, I will visit them with the sword and with famine and with pestilence.
Yea, I will visit them in my fierce anger, and there shall be those of the afourth generation who shall live, of your enemies, to behold your utter destruction; and this shall surely come except ye repent, saith the Lord; and those of the fourth generation shall visit your destruction.
But if ye will repent and areturn unto the Lord your God I will turn away mine anger, saith the Lord; yea, thus saith the Lord, blessed are they who will repent and turn unto me, but wo unto him that repenteth not.
Yea, awo unto this great city of Zarahemla; for behold, it is because of those who are righteous that it is saved; yea, wo unto this great city, for I perceive, saith the Lord, that there are many, yea, even the more part of this great city, that will harden their hearts against me, saith the Lord.
But blessed are they who will repent, for them will I spare.
But behold, if it were not for the righteous who are in this great city, behold, I would cause that afire should come down out of heaven and bdestroy it.
But behold, it is for the righteous’ sake that it is spared.
But behold, the time cometh, saith the Lord, that when ye shall cast out the righteous from among you, then shall ye be aripe for destruction; yea, wo be unto this great city, because of the wickedness and abominations which are in her.
Yea, and wo be unto the city of Gideon, for the wickedness and abominations which are in her.
Yea, and wo be unto all the cities which are in the land round about, which are possessed by the Nephites, because of the wickedness and abominations which are in them.
And behold, a acurse shall come upon the land, saith the Lord of Hosts, because of the people’s sake who are upon the land, yea, because of their wickedness and their abominations.
And it shall come to pass, saith the Lord of Hosts, yea, our great and true God, that whoso shall ahide up treasures in the earth shall find them again no more, because of the great curse of the land, save he be a righteous man and shall hide it up unto the Lord.
For I will, saith the Lord, that they shall hide up their atreasures unto me; and cursed be they who hide not up their treasures unto me; for none hideth up their treasures unto me save it be the righteous; and he that hideth not up his treasures unto me, cursed is he, and also the treasure, and none shall redeem it because of the curse of the land.
And the day shall come that they shall hide up their treasures, because they have set their hearts upon riches; and because they have set their hearts upon their riches, and will hide up their treasures when they shall flee before their enemies; because they will not hide them up unto me, cursed be they and also their treasures; and in that day shall they be smitten, saith the Lord.
Behold ye, the people of this great city, and hearken unto my words; yea, hearken unto the words which the Lord saith; for behold, he saith that ye are acursed because of your riches, and also are your riches cursed because ye have set your hearts upon them, and have not bhearkened unto the words of him who gave them unto you.
Ye do not remember the Lord your God in the things with which he hath blessed you, but ye do always remember your ariches, not to thank the Lord your God for them; yea, your hearts are not drawn out unto the Lord, but they do swell with great pride, unto bboasting, and unto great cswelling, denvyings, strifes, malice, persecutions, and murders, and all manner of iniquities.
For this cause hath the Lord God caused that a curse should come upon the land, and also upon your riches, and this because of your iniquities.
Yea, wo unto this people, because of this time which has arrived, that ye do acast out the prophets, and do mock them, and cast stones at them, and do slay them, and do all manner of iniquity unto them, even as they did of old time.
And now when ye talk, ye say: If our days had been in the days of our afathers of old, we would not have bslain the prophets; we would not have stoned them, and cast them out.
Behold ye are worse than they; for as the Lord liveth, if a aprophet come among you and declareth unto you the word of the Lord, which testifieth of your bsins and iniquities, ye are cangry with him, and cast him out and seek all manner of ways to destroy him; yea, you will say that he is a dfalse eprophet, and that he is a sinner, and of the devil, because he ftestifieth that your deeds are evil.
But behold, if a man shall come among you and shall say: Do this, and there is no iniquity; do that and ye shall not suffer; yea, he will say: aWalk after the pride of your own hearts; yea, walk after the pride of your eyes, and do whatsoever your heart desireth—and if a man shall come among you and say this, ye will receive him, and say that he is a bprophet.
Yea, ye will lift him up, and ye will give unto him of your substance; ye will give unto him of your gold, and of your silver, and ye will clothe him with costly apparel; and because he speaketh aflattering words unto you, and he saith that all is well, then ye will not find fault with him.
O ye wicked and ye perverse generation; ye hardened and ye astiffnecked people, how long will ye suppose that the Lord will suffer you?
Yea, how long will ye suffer yourselves to be led by bfoolish and cblind guides?
Yea, how long will ye dchoose darkness rather than elight?
Yea, behold, the anger of the Lord is already kindled against you; behold, he hath cursed the land because of your iniquity.
And behold, the time cometh that he curseth your riches, that they become aslippery, that ye cannot hold them; and in the days of your poverty ye cannot retain them.
And in the days of your poverty ye shall cry unto the Lord; and in vain shall ye cry, for your desolation is already come upon you, and your destruction is made sure; and then shall ye weep and howl in that day, saith the Lord of Hosts.
And then shall ye lament, and say: O athat I had repented, and had not killed the prophets, and bstoned them, and cast them out.
Yea, in that day ye shall say: O that we had remembered the Lord our God in the day that he gave us our riches, and then they would not have become slippery that we should lose them; for behold, our riches are gone from us.
Behold, we lay a tool here and on the morrow it is gone; and behold, our swords are taken from us in the day we have sought them for battle.
Yea, we have hid up our atreasures and they have slipped away from us, because of the curse of the land.
O that we had repented in the day that the word of the Lord came unto us; for behold the land is cursed, and all things are become slippery, and we cannot hold them.
Behold, we are surrounded by ademons, yea, we are encircled about by the angels of him who hath sought to destroy our souls.
Behold, our iniquities are great.
O Lord, canst thou not turn away thine anger from us?
And this shall be your language in those days.
But behold, your adays of probation are past; ye have bprocrastinated the day of your salvation until it is everlastingly too late, and your destruction is made sure; yea, for ye have sought all the days of your lives for that which ye could not obtain; and ye have sought for chappiness in doing iniquity, which thing is dcontrary to the nature of that righteousness which is in our great and Eternal Head.
O ye people of the land, that ye would hear my words!
And I pray that the anger of the Lord be turned away from you, and that ye would repent and be saved.
 And now it came to pass that aSamuel, the Lamanite, did prophesy a great many more things which cannot be written.
And behold, he said unto them: Behold, I give unto you a sign; for afive years more cometh, and behold, then cometh the Son of God to redeem all those who shall believe on his name.
And behold, this will I give unto you for a asign at the time of his coming; for behold, there shall be great lights in heaven, insomuch that in the night before he cometh there shall be no darkness, insomuch that it shall appear unto man as if it was day.
Therefore, there shall be one aday and a night and a day, as if it were one day and there were no night; and this shall be unto you for a sign; for ye shall know of the rising of the sun and also of its setting; therefore they shall know of a surety that there shall be two days and a night; nevertheless the night shall not be darkened; and it shall be the night before he is bborn.
And behold, there shall a new astar arise, such an one as ye never have beheld; and this also shall be a sign unto you.
And behold this is not all, there shall be many asigns and wonders in heaven.
And it shall come to pass that ye shall all be amazed, and wonder, insomuch that ye shall afall to the earth.
And it shall come to pass that whosoever shall abelieve on the Son of God, the same shall have everlasting life.
And behold, thus hath the Lord commanded me, by his angel, that I should come and tell this thing unto you; yea, he hath commanded that I should prophesy these things unto you; yea, he hath said unto me: Cry unto this people, repent and prepare the way of the Lord.
And now, because I am a Lamanite, and have spoken unto you the words which the Lord hath commanded me, and because it was hard against you, ye are angry with me and do seek to destroy me, and have acast me out from among you.
And ye shall ahear my words, for, for this intent have I come up upon the walls of this city, that ye might hear and know of the judgments of God which do await you because of your iniquities, and also that ye might know the conditions of repentance; And also that ye might know of the coming of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the aFather of heaven and of earth, the Creator of all things from the beginning; and that ye might know of the signs of his coming, to the intent that ye might believe on his name.
And if ye abelieve on his name ye will repent of all your sins, that thereby ye may have a remission of them through his bmerits.
And behold, again, another sign I give unto you, yea, a sign of his adeath.
For behold, he surely must die that asalvation may come; yea, it behooveth him and becometh expedient that he bdieth, to bring to pass the cresurrection of the dead, that thereby men may be brought into the dpresence of the Lord.
Yea, behold, this death bringeth to pass the aresurrection, and bredeemeth all mankind from the first death—that spiritual death; for all mankind, by the cfall of Adam being dcut off from the presence of the Lord, are considered as edead, both as to things temporal and to things spiritual.
But behold, the resurrection of Christ aredeemeth mankind, yea, even all mankind, and bringeth them back into the presence of the Lord.
Yea, and it bringeth to pass the condition of repentance, that whosoever repenteth the same is not ahewn down and cast into the fire; but whosoever repenteth not is hewn down and cast into the fire; and there cometh upon them again a bspiritual death, yea, a second death, for they are cut off again as to things pertaining to righteousness.
Therefore repent ye, repent ye, lest by knowing these things and not doing them ye shall suffer yourselves to come under condemnation, and ye are brought down unto this second death.
But behold, as I said unto you concerning another asign, a sign of his death, behold, in that day that he shall suffer death the sun shall be darkened and refuse to give his blight unto you; and also the moon and the stars; and there shall be no light upon the face of this land, even from the time that he shall suffer death, for the space of cthree days, to the time that he shall rise again from the dead.
Yea, at the time that he shall yield up the aghost there shall be bthunderings and lightnings for the space of many hours, and the earth shall shake and tremble; and the crocks which are upon the face of this earth, which are both above the earth and beneath, which ye know at this time are solid, or the more part of it is one solid mass, shall be dbroken up; Yea, they shall be rent in twain, and shall ever after be afound in seams and in cracks, and in broken fragments upon the face of the whole earth, yea, both above the earth and beneath.
And behold, there shall be great atempests, and there shall be many mountains laid low, like unto a valley, and there shall be many places which are now called bvalleys which shall become mountains, whose height is great.
And amany highways shall be broken up, and many cities shall become desolate.
And many agraves shall be opened, and shall yield up many of their dead; and many saints shall appear unto many.
And behold, thus hath the aangel spoken unto me; for he said unto me that there should be thunderings and lightnings for the space of many hours.
And he said unto me that while the thunder and the lightning lasted, and the tempest, that these things should be, and that adarkness should cover the face of the whole earth for the space of three days.
And the angel said unto me that many shall see greater things than these, to the intent that they might believe that athese signs and these wonders should come to pass upon all the face of this land, to the intent that there should be no cause for unbelief among the children of men— And this to the intent that whosoever will believe might be saved, and that whosoever will not believe, a arighteous judgment might come upon them; and also if they are condemned they bring upon themselves their own condemnation.
And now remember, remember, my brethren, that whosoever perisheth, perisheth unto ahimself; and whosoever doeth iniquity, doeth it unto himself; for behold, ye are bfree; ye are permitted to act for yourselves; for behold, God hath given unto you a cknowledge and he hath made you free.
He hath given unto you that ye might aknow good from evil, and he hath given unto you that ye might bchoose life or death; and ye can do good and be crestored unto that which is good, or have that which is good restored unto you; or ye can do evil, and have that which is evil restored unto you.
 And now, my beloved brethren, behold, I declare unto you that except ye shall repent your houses shall be left unto you adesolate.
Yea, except ye repent, your women shall have great cause to mourn in the day that they shall give suck; for ye shall attempt to flee and there shall be no place for arefuge; yea, and wo unto them which are bwith child, for they shall be heavy and cannot flee; therefore, they shall be trodden down and shall be left to perish.
Yea, wo unto this apeople who are called the bpeople of Nephi except they shall repent, when they shall see all these signs and wonders which shall be showed unto them; for behold, they have been a chosen people of the Lord; yea, the people of Nephi hath he loved, and also hath he cchastened them; yea, in the days of their iniquities hath he chastened them because he loveth them.
But behold my brethren, the aLamanites hath he hated because their deeds have been evil continually, and this because of the iniquity of the btradition of their fathers.
But behold, salvation hath come unto them through the preaching of the Nephites; and for this intent hath the Lord cprolonged their days.
And I would that ye should behold that the amore part of them are in the path of their duty, and they do walk circumspectly before God, and they do observe to keep his commandments and his statutes and his judgments according to the law of Moses.
Yea, I say unto you, that the more part of them are doing this, and they are striving with aunwearied diligence that they may bring the remainder of their brethren to the knowledge of the truth; therefore there are many who do add to their numbers daily.
And behold, ye do know of yourselves, for ye have witnessed it, that as many of them as are brought to the knowledge of the truth, and to know of the wicked and abominable traditions of their fathers, and are led to believe the holy scriptures, yea, the prophecies of the holy prophets, which are written, which leadeth them to faith on the Lord, and unto repentance, which faith and repentance bringeth a achange of heart unto them— Therefore, as many as have come to this, ye know of yourselves are afirm and steadfast in the faith, and in the thing wherewith they have been made free.
And ye know also that they have aburied their weapons of war, and they fear to take them up lest by any means they should sin; yea, ye can see that they fear to sin—for behold they will suffer themselves that they be trodden down and slain by their enemies, and will not lift their swords against them, and this because of their bfaith in Christ.
And now, because of their asteadfastness when they do believe in that thing which they do believe, for because of their firmness when they are once enlightened, behold, the Lord shall bless them and prolong their days, notwithstanding their iniquity— Yea, even if they should dwindle in unbelief the Lord shall aprolong their days, until the time shall come which hath been spoken of by our fathers, and also by the prophet bZenos, and many other prophets, concerning the crestoration of our brethren, the Lamanites, again to the knowledge of the truth— Yea, I say unto you, that in the latter times the apromises of the Lord have been extended to our brethren, the Lamanites; and notwithstanding the many afflictions which they shall have, and notwithstanding they shall be bdriven to and fro upon the face of the earth, and be hunted, and shall be smitten and scattered abroad, having no place for crefuge, the Lord shall be dmerciful unto them.
And this is according to the prophecy, that they shall again be abrought to the true knowledge, which is the knowledge of their Redeemer, and their great and true bshepherd, and be numbered among his csheep.
Therefore I say unto you, it shall be abetter for them than for you except ye repent.
For behold, ahad the mighty works been shown unto them which have been shown unto you, yea, unto them who have dwindled in unbelief because of the traditions of their fathers, ye can see of yourselves that they never would again have dwindled in unbelief.
Therefore, saith the Lord: I will not utterly destroy them, but I will cause that in the day of my wisdom they shall areturn again unto me, saith the Lord.
And now behold, saith the Lord, concerning the people of the Nephites: If they will not repent, and observe to do my will, I will utterly adestroy them, saith the Lord, because of their unbelief notwithstanding the many mighty works which I have done among them; and as surely as the Lord liveth shall these things be, saith the Lord.
 And now, it came to pass that there were many who heard the words of Samuel, the Lamanite, which he spake upon the awalls of the city.
And as many as believed on his word went forth and sought for Nephi; and when they had come forth and found him they confessed unto him their sins and denied not, desiring that they might be bbaptized unto the Lord.
But as many as there were who did not believe in the words of Samuel were aangry with him; and they cast stones at him upon the wall, and also many shot arrows at him as he stood upon the wall; but the Spirit of the Lord was with him, insomuch that they could not hit him with their stones neither with their arrows.
Now when they saw that they could not hit him, there were many more who did believe on his words, insomuch that they went away unto Nephi to be baptized.
For behold, Nephi was baptizing, and prophesying, and preaching, crying repentance unto the people, showing signs and wonders, working amiracles among the people, that they might know that the Christ must bshortly come— Telling them of things which must shortly come, that they might know and remember at the time of their coming that they had been made known unto them beforehand, to the intent that they might believe; therefore as many as believed on the words of Samuel went forth unto him to be baptized, for they came repenting and confessing their sins.
But the amore part of them did not believe in the words of Samuel; therefore when they saw that they could not hit him with their stones and their arrows, they cried unto their captains, saying: bTake this fellow and bind him, for behold he chath a devil; and because of the power of the devil which is in him we cannot hit him with our stones and our arrows; therefore take him and bind him, and away with him.
And as they went forth to lay their hands on him, behold, he did cast himself down from the wall, and did flee out of their lands, yea, even unto his own country, and began to preach and to prophesy aamong his own people.
And behold, he was never heard of more among the Nephites; and thus were the affairs of the people.
And thus ended the eighty and sixth year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi.
And thus ended also the eighty and seventh year of the reign of the judges, the more part of the people remaining in their pride and wickedness, and the lesser part walking more circumspectly before God.
And these were the conditions also, in the eighty and eighth year of the reign of the judges.
And there was but little alteration in the affairs of the people, save it were the people began to be more hardened in iniquity, and do more and more of that which was acontrary to the commandments of God, in the eighty and ninth year of the reign of the judges.
But it came to pass in the ninetieth year of the reign of the judges, there were agreat signs given unto the people, and wonders; and the words of the prophets bbegan to be fulfilled.
And aangels did appear unto men, wise men, and did declare unto them glad tidings of great joy; thus in this year the scriptures began to be fulfilled.
Nevertheless, the people began to harden their hearts, all save it were the most believing part of them, both of the Nephites and also of the Lamanites, and began to depend upon their aown strength and upon their own wisdom, saying: Some things they may have guessed right, among so many; but behold, we know that all these great and marvelous works cannot come to pass, of which has been spoken.
And they began to reason and to contend among themselves, saying: That it is anot reasonable that such a being as a Christ shall come; if so, and he be the Son of God, the Father of heaven and of earth, as it has been spoken, why will he not show himself unto us as well as unto them who shall be at Jerusalem?
Yea, why will he not show himself in this land as well as in the land of Jerusalem?
But behold, we know that this is a wicked atradition, which has been handed down unto us by our fathers, to cause us that we should believe in some great and marvelous thing which should come to pass, but not among us, but in a land which is far distant, a land which we know not; therefore they can keep us in ignorance, for we cannot bwitness with our own eyes that they are true.
And they will, by the cunning and the mysterious arts of the evil one, work some great mystery which we cannot understand, which will keep us down to be servants to their words, and also servants unto them, for we depend upon them to teach us the word; and thus will they keep us in ignorance if we will yield ourselves unto them, all the days of our lives.
And many more things did the people aimagine up in their hearts, which were foolish and bvain; and they were much disturbed, for Satan did stir them up to do iniquity continually; yea, he did go about spreading crumors and contentions upon all the face of the land, that he might harden the hearts of the people against that which was good and against that which should come.
And notwithstanding the signs and the wonders which were wrought among the people of the Lord, and the many miracles which they did, Satan did get great hold upon the hearts of the people upon all the face of the land.
And thus ended the ninetieth year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi.
aAnd thus ended the book of Helaman, according to the record of Helaman and his sons.
 And it came to pass in the forty and second year of the reign of the judges, after Moronihah had established again peace between the Nephites and the Lamanites, behold there was no one to fill the judgment-seat; therefore there began to be a contention again among the people concerning who should fill the judgment-seat.
And it came to pass that aHelaman, who was the son of Helaman, was appointed to fill the judgment-seat, by the bvoice of the people.
But behold, aKishkumen, who had murdered Pahoran, did lay wait to destroy Helaman also; and he was upheld by his band, who had entered into a covenant that no one should know his wickedness.
For there was one aGadianton, who was exceedingly expert in many words, and also in his craft, to carry on the secret work of murder and of robbery; therefore he became the leader of the band of Kishkumen.
Therefore he did aflatter them, and also Kishkumen, that if they would place him in the judgment-seat he would grant unto those who belonged to his band that they should be placed in power and authority among the people; therefore Kishkumen sought to destroy Helaman.
And it came to pass as he went forth towards the judgment-seat to destroy Helaman, behold one of the servants of Helaman, having been out by night, and having obtained, through disguise, a knowledge of those plans which had been laid by this band to destroy Helaman— And it came to pass that he met Kishkumen, and he gave unto him a sign; therefore Kishkumen made known unto him the object of his desire, desiring that he would conduct him to the judgment-seat that he might murder Helaman.
And when the servant of Helaman had known all the heart of Kishkumen, and how that it was his aobject to murder, and also that it was the object of all those who belonged to his band to murder, and to rob, and to gain power, (and this was their bsecret plan, and their combination) the servant of Helaman said unto Kishkumen: Let us go forth unto the judgment-seat.
Now this did please Kishkumen exceedingly, for he did suppose that he should accomplish his design; but behold, the servant of Helaman, as they were going forth unto the judgment-seat, did stab Kishkumen even to the heart, that he fell dead without a groan.
And he ran and told Helaman all the things which he had seen, and heard, and done.
And it came to pass that Helaman did send forth to take this band of robbers and asecret murderers, that they might be executed according to the law.
But behold, when Gadianton had found that Kishkumen did not return he feared lest that he should be destroyed; therefore he caused that his band should follow him.
And they took their flight out of the land, by a secret way, into the wilderness; and thus when Helaman sent forth to take them they could nowhere be found.
And more of this Gadianton shall be spoken hereafter.
And thus ended the forty and second year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi.
And behold, in the end of this book ye shall see that this aGadianton did prove the overthrow, yea, almost the entire destruction of the people of Nephi.
Behold I do not mean the end of the abook of Helaman, but I mean the end of the book of Nephi, from which I have taken all the account which I have written.
 And now it came to pass in the forty and third year of the reign of the judges, there was no contention among the people of Nephi save it were a little pride which was in the church, which did cause some little dissensions among the people, which affairs were settled in the ending of the forty and third year.
And there was no contention among the people in the forty and fourth year; neither was there much contention in the forty and fifth year.
And it came to pass in the forty and sixth, yea, there was much contention and many dissensions; in the which there were an exceedingly great many who departed out of the land of Zarahemla, and went forth unto the land anorthward to inherit the land.
And they did travel to an exceedingly great distance, insomuch that they came to alarge bodies of water and many rivers.
Yea, and even they did spread forth into all parts of the land, into whatever parts it had not been rendered desolate and without timber, because of the many inhabitants who had before inherited the land.
And now no part of the land was desolate, save it were for timber; but because of the greatness of the adestruction of the people who had before inhabited the land it was called bdesolate.
And there being but little timber upon the face of the land, nevertheless the people who went forth became exceedingly aexpert in the working of cement; therefore they did build houses of cement, in the which they did dwell.
And it came to pass that they did multiply and spread, and did go forth from the land southward to the land northward, and did spread insomuch that they began to cover the face of the whole earth, from the sea south to the sea north, from the asea west to the sea east.
And the people who were in the land northward did dwell in atents, and in houses of cement, and they did suffer whatsoever tree should spring up upon the face of the land that it should grow up, that in time they might have timber to build their houses, yea, their cities, and their temples, and their bsynagogues, and their sanctuaries, and all manner of their buildings.
And it came to pass as timber was exceedingly scarce in the land northward, they did send forth much by the way of ashipping.
And thus they did enable the people in the land northward that they might build many cities, both of wood and of cement.
And it came to pass that there were many of the apeople of Ammon, who were Lamanites by birth, did also go forth into this land.
And now there are many arecords kept of the proceedings of this people, by many of this people, which are particular and very large, concerning them.
But behold, a ahundredth part of the proceedings of this people, yea, the account of the Lamanites and of the Nephites, and their wars, and contentions, and dissensions, and their preaching, and their prophecies, and their shipping and their building of ships, and their building of btemples, and of synagogues and their csanctuaries, and their righteousness, and their wickedness, and their murders, and their robbings, and their plundering, and all manner of abominations and whoredoms, cannot be contained in this work.
But behold, there are many books and many arecords of every kind, and they have been kept chiefly by the Nephites.
And they have been ahanded down from one generation to another by the Nephites, even until they have fallen into transgression and have been murdered, plundered, and hunted, and driven forth, and slain, and bscattered upon the face of the earth, and mixed with the Lamanites until they are cno more called the Nephites, becoming wicked, and wild, and ferocious, yea, even becoming Lamanites.
And now I return again to mine account; therefore, what I have spoken had passed after there had been great contentions, and disturbances, and wars, and dissensions, among the people of Nephi.
The forty and sixth year of the reign of the judges ended; And it came to pass that there was still great contention in the land, yea, even in the forty and seventh year, and also in the forty and eighth year.
Nevertheless aHelaman did fill the judgment-seat with justice and equity; yea, he did observe to keep the statutes, and the judgments, and the commandments of God; and he did do that which was right in the sight of God continually; and he did walk after the ways of his father, insomuch that he did prosper in the land.
And it came to pass that he had two sons.
He gave unto the eldest the name of aNephi, and unto the youngest, the name of Lehi.
And they began to grow up unto the Lord.
And it came to pass that the wars and contentions began to cease, in a small degree, among the people of the Nephites, in the latter end of the forty and eighth year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi.
And it came to pass in the forty and ninth year of the reign of the judges, there was continual peace established in the land, all save it were the asecret combinations which bGadianton the robber had established in the more settled parts of the land, which at that time were not known unto those who were at the head of government; therefore they were not destroyed out of the land.
And it came to pass that in this same year there was exceedingly great prosperity in the church, insomuch that there were thousands who did ajoin themselves unto the church and were baptized unto repentance.
And so great was the prosperity of the church, and so many the blessings which were poured out upon the people, that even the high priests and the teachers were themselves astonished beyond measure.
And it came to pass that the work of the Lord did prosper unto the baptizing and uniting to the church of God, many souls, yea, even tens of thousands.
Thus we may see that the Lord is merciful unto all who will, in the sincerity of their hearts, call upon his holy name.
Yea, thus we see that the agate of heaven is open unto ball, even to those who will believe on the name of Jesus Christ, who is the Son of God.
Yea, we see that whosoever will may lay hold upon the aword of God, which is bquick and powerful, which shall cdivide asunder all the cunning and the snares and the wiles of the devil, and lead the man of Christ in a strait and dnarrow course across that everlasting egulf of misery which is prepared to engulf the wicked— And land their souls, yea, their immortal souls, at the aright hand of God in the kingdom of heaven, to sit down with Abraham, and Isaac, and with Jacob, and with all our holy fathers, to go no more out.
And in this year there was continual rejoicing in the land of Zarahemla, and in all the regions round about, even in all the land which was possessed by the Nephites.
And it came to pass that there was peace and exceedingly great joy in the remainder of the forty and ninth year; yea, and also there was continual peace and great joy in the fiftieth year of the reign of the judges.
And in the fifty and first year of the reign of the judges there was peace also, save it were the pride which began to enter into the church—not into the church of God, but into the hearts of the people who aprofessed to belong to the church of God— And they were lifted up in apride, even to the persecution of many of their brethren.
Now this was a great evil, which did cause the more humble part of the people to suffer great persecutions, and to wade through much affliction.
Nevertheless they did afast and bpray oft, and did wax stronger and stronger in their chumility, and firmer and firmer in the faith of Christ, unto the filling their souls with joy and consolation, yea, even to the dpurifying and the esanctification of their hearts, which sanctification cometh because of their fyielding their hearts unto God.
And it came to pass that the fifty and second year ended in peace also, save it were the exceedingly great pride which had gotten into the hearts of the people; and it was because of their exceedingly great ariches and their prosperity in the land; and it did grow upon them from day to day.
And it came to pass in the fifty and third year of the reign of the judges, aHelaman died, and his eldest son bNephi began to reign in his stead.
And it came to pass that he did fill the judgment-seat with justice and equity; yea, he did keep the commandments of God, and did walk in the ways of his father.
 And it came to pass that in this same year, behold, aNephi bdelivered up the judgment-seat to a man whose name was cCezoram.
For as their laws and their governments were established by the avoice of the people, and they who bchose evil were cmore numerous than they who chose good, therefore they were dripening for destruction, for the laws had become corrupted.
Yea, and this was not all; they were a astiffnecked people, insomuch that they could not be governed by the law nor justice, save it were to their destruction.
And it came to pass that Nephi had become weary because of their iniquity; and he yielded up the judgment-seat, and took it upon him to preach the word of God all the remainder of his days, and his brother Lehi also, all the remainder of his days; For they remembered the words which their afather Helaman spake unto them.
And these are the words which he spake: Behold, my sons, I desire that ye should remember to keep the commandments of God; and I would that ye should declare unto the people these words.
Behold, I have given unto you the names of our first aparents who came out of the land of Jerusalem; and this I have done that when you remember your names ye may remember them; and when ye remember them ye may remember their works; and when ye remember their works ye may know how that it is said, and also written, that they were bgood.
Therefore, my sons, I would that ye should do that which is good, that it may be said of you, and also written, even as it has been said and written of them.
And now my sons, behold I have somewhat more to desire of you, which desire is, that ye may not do these things that ye may boast, but that ye may do these things to lay up for yourselves a atreasure in heaven, yea, which is eternal, and which fadeth not away; yea, that ye may have that bprecious gift of eternal life, which we have reason to suppose hath been given to our fathers.
O remember, remember, my sons, the awords which king Benjamin spake unto his people; yea, remember that there is no other way nor means whereby man can be saved, only through the batoning blood of Jesus Christ, who shall come; yea, remember that he cometh to credeem the dworld.
And remember also the words which Amulek spake unto Zeezrom, ain the city of Ammonihah; for he said unto him that the Lord surely should come to redeem his people, but that he should not come to redeem them in their sins, but to redeem them from their sins.
And he hath power given unto him from the Father to redeem them from their sins because of repentance; therefore he hath asent his angels to declare the tidings of the conditions of repentance, which bringeth unto the power of the Redeemer, unto the salvation of their souls.
And now, my sons, remember, remember that it is upon the arock of our Redeemer, who is Christ, the Son of God, that ye must build your bfoundation; that when the devil shall send forth his mighty winds, yea, his shafts in the whirlwind, yea, when all his hail and his mighty cstorm shall beat upon you, it shall have no power over you to drag you down to the gulf of misery and endless wo, because of the rock upon which ye are built, which is a sure foundation, a foundation whereon if men build they cannot fall.
And it came to pass that these were the words which Helaman ataught to his sons; yea, he did teach them many things which are not written, and also many things which are written.
And they did remember his words; and therefore they went forth, keeping the commandments of God, to teach the word of God among all the people of Nephi, beginning at the city Bountiful; And from thenceforth to the city of Gid; and from the city of Gid to the city of Mulek; And even from one city to another, until they had gone forth aamong all the people of Nephi who were in the land southward; and from thence into the land of Zarahemla, among the Lamanites.
And it came to pass that they did apreach with great bpower, insomuch that they did confound many of those cdissenters who had gone over from the Nephites, insomuch that they came forth and did confess their sins and were baptized unto repentance, and immediately returned to the Nephites to endeavor to repair unto them the wrongs which they had done.
And it came to pass that Nephi and Lehi did preach unto the Lamanites with such great power and authority, for they had power and authority given unto them that they might aspeak, and they also had what they should speak given unto them— Therefore they did speak unto the great astonishment of the Lamanites, to the convincing them, insomuch that there were eight thousand of the Lamanites who were in the land of Zarahemla and round about abaptized unto repentance, and were convinced of the bwickedness of the ctraditions of their fathers.
And it came to pass that Nephi and Lehi did proceed from thence to go to the aland of Nephi.
And it came to pass that they were taken by an army of the Lamanites and cast into aprison; yea, even in that same prison in which Ammon and his brethren were cast by the servants of Limhi.
And after they had been cast into prison many days without food, behold, they went forth into the prison to take them that they might slay them.
And it came to pass that Nephi and Lehi were encircled about aas if by bfire, even insomuch that they durst not lay their hands upon them for fear lest they should be burned.
Nevertheless, Nephi and Lehi were not burned; and they were as standing in the midst of fire and were not burned.
And when they saw that they were encircled about with a apillar of fire, and that it burned them not, their hearts did take courage.
For they saw that the Lamanites durst not lay their hands upon them; neither durst they come near unto them, but stood as if they were struck dumb with amazement.
And it came to pass that Nephi and Lehi did stand forth and began to speak unto them, saying: aFear not, for behold, it is God that has shown unto you this marvelous thing, in the which is shown unto you that ye cannot lay your hands on us to slay us.
And behold, when they had said these words, the earth shook exceedingly, and the walls of the prison did shake as if they were about to tumble to the earth; but behold, they did not fall.
And behold, they that were in the prison were Lamanites and Nephites who were dissenters.
And it came to pass that they were overshadowed with a cloud of adarkness, and an awful solemn fear came upon them.
And it came to pass that there came a avoice as if it were above the cloud of darkness, saying: Repent ye, repent ye, and seek no more to destroy my bservants whom I have sent unto you to declare good tidings.
And it came to pass when they heard this avoice, and beheld that it was not a voice of thunder, neither was it a voice of a great tumultuous noise, but behold, it was a bstill voice of perfect mildness, as if it had been a whisper, and it did pierce even to the very soul— And notwithstanding the mildness of the voice, behold the earth shook exceedingly, and the walls of the prison trembled again, as if it were about to tumble to the earth; and behold the cloud of darkness, which had overshadowed them, did not disperse— And behold the voice came again, saying: aRepent ye, repent ye, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand; and seek no more to destroy my servants.
And it came to pass that the earth shook again, and the walls trembled.
And also again the third time the voice came, and did speak unto them marvelous words which acannot be uttered by man; and the walls did tremble again, and the earth shook as if it were about to divide asunder.
And it came to pass that the Lamanites could not flee because of the cloud of darkness which did overshadow them; yea, and also they were immovable because of the fear which did come upon them.
Now there was one among them who was a Nephite by birth, who had once belonged to the church of God but had dissented from them.
And it came to pass that he turned him about, and behold, he saw through the cloud of darkness the faces of Nephi and Lehi; and behold, they did ashine exceedingly, even as the faces of angels.
And he beheld that they did lift their eyes to heaven; and they were in the attitude as if talking or lifting their voices to some being whom they beheld.
And it came to pass that this man did cry unto the multitude, that they might turn and look.
And behold, there was power given unto them that they did turn and look; and they did behold the faces of Nephi and Lehi.
And they said unto the man: Behold, what do all these things mean, and who is it with whom these men do converse?
Now the man’s name was Aminadab.
And Aminadab said unto them: They do converse with the angels of God.
And it came to pass that the Lamanites said unto him: aWhat shall we do, that this cloud of darkness may be removed from overshadowing us?
And Aminadab said unto them: You must arepent, and cry unto the voice, even until ye shall have bfaith in Christ, who was taught unto you by Alma, and cAmulek, and Zeezrom; and when ye shall do this, the cloud of darkness shall be removed from overshadowing you.
And it came to pass that they all did begin to cry unto the voice of him who had shaken the earth; yea, they did cry even until the cloud of darkness was dispersed.
And it came to pass that when they cast their eyes about, and saw that the cloud of darkness was dispersed from overshadowing them, behold, they saw that they were aencircled about, yea every soul, by a pillar of fire.
And aNephi and bLehi were in the midst of them; yea, they were encircled about; yea, they were as if in the midst of a flaming fire, yet it did harm them not, neither did it take hold upon the walls of the prison; and they were filled with that cjoy which is unspeakable and full of glory.
And behold, the aHoly Spirit of God did come down from heaven, and did enter into their hearts, and they were filled as if with fire, and they could bspeak forth marvelous words.
And it came to pass that there came a voice unto them, yea, a pleasant voice, as if it were a whisper, saying: aPeace, peace be unto you, because of your faith in my Well Beloved, who was from the foundation of the world.
And now, when they heard this they cast up their eyes as if to behold from whence the voice came; and behold, they saw the aheavens open; and angels came down out of heaven and ministered unto them.
And there were about three hundred souls who saw and heard these things; and they were bidden to go forth and marvel not, neither should they doubt.
And it came to pass that they did go forth, and did minister unto the people, declaring throughout all the regions round about all the things which they had heard and seen, insomuch that the more part of the Lamanites were aconvinced of them, because of the greatness of the evidences which they had received.
And as many as were aconvinced did lay down their weapons of war, and also their hatred and the tradition of their fathers.
And it came to pass that they did ayield up unto the Nephites the lands of their possession.
 And it came to pass that when the sixty and second year of the reign of the judges had ended, all these things had happened and the Lamanites had become, the more part of them, a righteous people, insomuch that their arighteousness did exceed that of the Nephites, because of their firmness and their steadiness in the faith.
For behold, there were many of the Nephites who had become ahardened and impenitent and grossly wicked, insomuch that they did reject the word of God and all the preaching and prophesying which did come among them.
Nevertheless, the people of the church did have great joy because of the conversion of the Lamanites, yea, because of the church of God, which had been established among them.
And they did afellowship one with another, and did rejoice one with another, and did have great joy.
And it came to pass that many of the Lamanites did come down into the land of Zarahemla, and did declare unto the people of the Nephites the manner of their aconversion, and did exhort them to faith and repentance.
Yea, and many did apreach with exceedingly great power and authority, unto the bringing down many of them into the depths of humility, to be the humble followers of God and the Lamb.
And it came to pass that many of the Lamanites did go into the land northward; and also aNephi and bLehi went into the cland northward, to preach unto the people.
And thus ended the sixty and third year.
And behold, there was peace in all the land, insomuch that the Nephites did go into whatsoever part of the land they would, whether among the Nephites or the Lamanites.
And it came to pass that the Lamanites did also go whithersoever they would, whether it were among the Lamanites or among the Nephites; and thus they did have free intercourse one with another, to abuy and to sell, and to get gain, according to their desire.
And it came to pass that they became exceedingly rich, both the Lamanites and the Nephites; and they did have an exceeding plenty of agold, and of silver, and of all manner of precious metals, both in the land south and in the land north.
Now the land south was called aLehi, and the land north was called bMulek, which was after the cson of Zedekiah; for the Lord did bring Mulek into the land north, and Lehi into the land south.
And behold, there was all manner of gold in both these lands, and of silver, and of precious ore of every kind; and there were also curious workmen, who did awork all kinds of ore and did refine it; and thus they did become rich.
They did raise grain in abundance, both in the north and in the south; and they did flourish exceedingly, both in the north and in the south.
And they did multiply and wax exceedingly strong in the land.
And they did raise many flocks and herds, yea, many fatlings.
Behold their women did toil and spin, and did amake all manner of bcloth, of fine-twined linen and cloth of every kind, to clothe their nakedness.
And thus the sixty and fourth year did pass away in peace.
And in the sixty and fifth year they did also have great joy and peace, yea, much preaching and many prophecies concerning that which was to come.
And thus passed away the sixty and fifth year.
And it came to pass that in the sixty and sixth year of the reign of the judges, behold, aCezoram was murdered by an unknown hand as he sat upon the judgment-seat.
And it came to pass that in the same year, that his son, who had been appointed by the people in his stead, was also murdered.
And thus ended the sixty and sixth year.
And in the commencement of the sixty and seventh year the people began to grow exceedingly wicked again.
For behold, the Lord had blessed them so long with the ariches of the world that they had not been stirred up to anger, to wars, nor to bloodshed; therefore they began to set their hearts upon their riches; yea, they began to seek to get gain that they might be lifted up one above another; therefore they began to commit bsecret murders, and to rob and to plunder, that they might get gain.
And now behold, those murderers and plunderers were a band who had been formed by Kishkumen and aGadianton.
And now it had come to pass that there were many, even among the Nephites, of Gadianton’s band.
But behold, they were more numerous among the more wicked part of the Lamanites.
And they were called Gadianton’s robbers and murderers.
And it was they who did murder the chief judge aCezoram, and his son, while in the judgment-seat; and behold, they were not found.
And now it came to pass that when the Lamanites found that there were robbers among them they were exceedingly sorrowful; and they did use every means in their power to destroy them off the face of the earth.
But behold, Satan did stir up the ahearts of the more part of the Nephites, insomuch that they did unite with those bands of robbers, and did enter into their covenants and their oaths, that they would protect and preserve one another in whatsoever difficult circumstances they should be placed, that they should not suffer for their murders, and their plunderings, and their bstealings.
And it came to pass that they did have their signs, yea, their asecret signs, and their bsecret words; and this that they might distinguish a brother who had entered into the covenant, that whatsoever wickedness his brother should do he should not be injured by his brother, nor by those who did belong to his band, who had taken this covenant.
And thus they might murder, and plunder, and steal, and commit awhoredoms and all manner of wickedness, contrary to the laws of their country and also the laws of their God.
And whosoever of those who belonged to their band should reveal unto the world of their awickedness and their abominations, should be tried, not according to the laws of their country, but according to the laws of their wickedness, which had been given by Gadianton and Kishkumen.
Now behold, it is these secret aoaths and covenants which Alma commanded his son should not go forth unto the world, lest they should be a means of bringing down the people unto destruction.
Now behold, those asecret oaths and covenants did not come forth unto Gadianton from the brecords which were delivered unto Helaman; but behold, they were put into the heart of cGadianton by that dsame being who did entice our first parents to partake of the forbidden fruit— Yea, that same being who did plot with aCain, that if he would murder his brother Abel it should not be known unto the world.
And he did plot with Cain and his followers from that time forth.
And also it is that same being who put it into the hearts of the people to abuild a tower sufficiently high that they might get to heaven.
And it was that same being who led on the people who came from that tower into this land; who spread the works of darkness and abominations over all the face of the land, until he dragged the people down to an bentire destruction, and to an everlasting hell.
Yea, it is that same being who put it into the heart of aGadianton to still carry on the work of darkness, and of secret murder; and he has brought it forth from the beginning of man even down to this time.
And behold, it is he who is the aauthor of all sin.
And behold, he doth carry on his works of darkness and secret murder, and doth hand down their plots, and their oaths, and their covenants, and their plans of awful wickedness, from generation to generation according as he can get hold upon the hearts of the children of men.
And now behold, he had got great hold upon the hearts of the Nephites; yea, insomuch that they had become exceedingly wicked; yea, the more part of them had turned out of the away of righteousness, and did btrample under their feet the commandments of God, and did turn unto their own ways, and did build up unto themselves cidols of their gold and their silver.
And it came to pass that all these iniquities did come unto them in the space of anot many years, insomuch that a more part of it had come unto them in the sixty and seventh year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi.
And they did grow in their iniquities in the sixty and eighth year also, to the great sorrow and lamentation of the righteous.
And thus we see that the aNephites did begin to dwindle in unbelief, and grow in wickedness and abominations, while the Lamanites began to grow exceedingly in the knowledge of their God; yea, they did begin to keep his statutes and commandments, and to walk in truth and uprightness before him.
And thus we see that the Spirit of the Lord began to awithdraw from the Nephites, because of the wickedness and the hardness of their hearts.
And thus we see that the Lord began to pour out his aSpirit upon the Lamanites, because of their easiness and bwillingness to believe in his words.
And it came to pass that the Lamanites did hunt the band of robbers of Gadianton; and they did preach the word of God among the more wicked part of them, insomuch that this band of robbers was utterly destroyed from among the Lamanites.
And it came to pass on the other hand, that the Nephites did build them up and support them, beginning at the more wicked part of them, until they had overspread all the land of the Nephites, and had seduced the more part of the righteous until they had come down to believe in their works and partake of their spoils, and to join with them in their secret murders and combinations.
And thus they did obtain the sole management of the government, insomuch that they did trample under their feet and smite and rend and turn their backs upon the apoor and the meek, and the humble followers of God.
And thus we see that they were in an awful state, and aripening for an everlasting destruction.
And it came to pass that thus ended the sixty and eighth year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi.
 Behold, now it came to pass in the sixty and ninth year of the reign of the judges over the people of the Nephites, that Nephi, the son of Helaman, areturned to the land of Zarahemla from the land northward.
For he had been forth among the people who were in the land northward, and did preach the word of God unto them, and did prophesy many things unto them; And they did areject all his words, insomuch that he could not stay among them, but returned again unto the land of his nativity.
And seeing the people in a state of such awful wickedness, and those Gadianton robbers filling the judgment-seats—having ausurped the power and authority of the land; laying aside the commandments of God, and not in the least aright before him; doing no justice unto the children of men; Condemning the righteous because of their righteousness; letting the guilty and the wicked go aunpunished because of their bmoney; and moreover to be held in office at the head of government, to rule and do according to their wills, that they might get gain and glory of the cworld, and, moreover, that they might the more easily commit adultery, and steal, and kill, and do according to their own wills— Now this great iniquity had come upon the Nephites, in the space of anot many years; and when Nephi saw it, his heart was swollen with sorrow within his breast; and he did exclaim in the agony of his soul: Oh, that I could have had my days in the days when my father Nephi first came out of the land of Jerusalem, that I could have ajoyed with him in the promised land; then were his people easy to be entreated, bfirm to keep the commandments of God, and slow to be led to do iniquity; and they were quick to hearken unto the words of the Lord— Yea, if my days could have been in those days, then would my soul have had joy in the righteousness of my brethren.
But behold, I am consigned that these are my days, and that my soul shall be filled with asorrow because of this the wickedness of my brethren.
And behold, now it came to pass that it was upon a tower, which was in the agarden of Nephi, which was by the highway which led to the chief market, which was in the city of Zarahemla; therefore, Nephi had bowed himself upon the tower which was in his garden, which tower was also near unto the garden gate by which led the highway.
And it came to pass that there were certain men passing by and saw Nephi as he was pouring out his soul unto God upon the atower; and they ran and told the people what they had seen, and the people came together in multitudes that they might know the cause of so great mourning for the wickedness of the people.
And now, when Nephi arose he beheld the multitudes of people who had gathered together.
And it came to pass that he opened his mouth and said unto them: Behold, awhy have ye gathered yourselves together?
That I may tell you of your iniquities?
Yea, because I have got upon my tower that I might pour out my soul unto my God, because of the exceeding sorrow of my heart, which is because of your iniquities!
And because of my amourning and lamentation ye have gathered yourselves together, and do marvel; yea, and ye have great need to marvel; yea, ye ought to marvel because ye are given away that the devil has got so great hold upon your hearts.
Yea, how could you have given way to the enticing of him who is seeking to hurl away your souls down to aeverlasting misery and endless wo?
O repent ye, repent ye!
aWhy will ye die?
Turn ye, turn ye unto the Lord your God.
Why has he forsaken you?
It is because you have hardened your hearts; yea, ye will not ahearken unto the voice of the bgood shepherd; yea, ye have cprovoked him to anger against you.
And behold, instead of agathering you, except ye will repent, behold, he shall scatter you forth that ye shall become meat for dogs and wild beasts.
O, how could you have aforgotten your God in the very day that he has delivered you?
But behold, it is to get again, to be bpraised of men, yea, and that ye might get gold and silver.
And ye have set your hearts upon the criches and the vain things of this world, for the which ye do murder, and plunder, and steal, and bear dfalse witness against your neighbor, and do all manner of iniquity.
And for this cause awo shall come unto you except ye shall repent.
For if ye will not repent, behold, this bgreat city, and also all those great cities which are round about, which are in the land of our possession, shall be taken away that ye shall have no place in them; for behold, the Lord will not grant unto you cstrength, as he has hitherto done, to withstand against your enemies.
For behold, thus saith the Lord: I will not show unto the wicked of my strength, to one more than the other, save it be unto those who repent of their sins, and hearken unto my words.
Now therefore, I would that ye should behold, my brethren, that it shall be abetter for the Lamanites than for you except ye shall repent.
For behold, they are more righteous than you, for they have not sinned against that great knowledge which ye have received; therefore the Lord will be merciful unto them; yea, he will alengthen out their days and increase their seed, even when thou shalt be utterly bdestroyed except thou shalt repent.
Yea, wo be unto you because of that great abomination which has come among you; and ye have united yourselves unto it, yea, to that asecret band which was established by Gadianton!
Yea, awo shall come unto you because of that pride which ye have suffered to enter your hearts, which has lifted you up beyond that which is good because of your exceedingly great riches!
Yea, wo be unto you because of your wickedness and abominations!
And except ye repent ye shall perish; yea, even your lands shall be taken from you, and ye shall be destroyed from off the face of the earth.
Behold now, I do not say that these things shall be, of myself, because it is not of myself that I aknow these things; but behold, I bknow that these things are true because the Lord God has made them known unto me, therefore I testify that they shall be.
 Behold, now it came to pass that when Nephi had spoken these words, certain men who were among them ran to the judgment-seat; yea, even there were afive who went, and they said among themselves, as they went: Behold, now we will know of a surety whether this man be a prophet and God hath commanded him to prophesy such marvelous things unto us.
Behold, we do not abelieve that he hath; yea, we do not believe that he is a prophet; nevertheless, if this thing which he has said concerning the chief judge be true, that he be dead, then will we believe that the other words which he has spoken are true.
And it came to pass that they ran in their might, and came in unto the judgment-seat; and behold, the chief judge had fallen to the earth, and did alie in his blood.
And now behold, when they saw this they were astonished exceedingly, insomuch that they fell to the earth; for they had not believed the words which Nephi had spoken concerning the chief judge.
But now, when they saw they believed, and fear came upon them lest all the judgments which Nephi had spoken ashould come upon the people; therefore they did quake, and had fallen to the earth.
Now, immediately when the judge had been murdered—he being stabbed by his brother by a garb of secrecy, and he fled, and the servants ran and told the people, raising the cry of murder among them; And behold the people did gather themselves together unto the place of the judgment-seat—and behold, to their astonishment they saw those afive men who had fallen to the earth.
And now behold, the people knew nothing concerning the multitude who had gathered together at the agarden of Nephi; therefore they said among themselves: These men are they who have murdered the judge, and God has smitten them that they could not flee from us.
And it came to pass that they laid hold on them, and bound them and cast them into prison.
And there was a proclamation sent abroad that the judge was slain, and that the murderers had been taken and were cast into prison.
And it came to pass that on the morrow the people did assemble themselves together to amourn and to bfast, at the burial of the great chief judge who had been slain.
And thus also those judges who were at the garden of Nephi, and heard his words, were also gathered together at the burial.
And it came to pass that they inquired among the people, saying: Where are the five who were sent to inquire concerning the chief judge whether he was dead?
And they answered and said: Concerning this five whom ye say ye have sent, we know not; but there are five who are the murderers, whom we have cast into prison.
And it came to pass that the judges desired that they should be brought; and they were brought, and behold they were the five who were sent; and behold the judges inquired of them to know concerning the matter, and they told them all that they had done, saying: We ran and came to the place of the judgment-seat, and when we saw all things even as Nephi had testified, we were astonished insomuch that we fell to the earth; and when we were recovered from our astonishment, behold they cast us into aprison.
Now, as for the murder of this man, we know not who has done it; and only this much we know, we ran and came aaccording as ye desired, and behold he was dead, according to the words of Nephi.
And now it came to pass that the judges did expound the matter unto the people, and did cry out against Nephi, saying: Behold, we know that this Nephi must have agreed with some one to slay the judge, and then he might declare it unto us, that he might convert us unto his faith, that he might raise himself to be a great man, chosen of God, and a prophet.
And now behold, we will detect this man, and he shall confess his fault and make known unto us the true murderer of this judge.
And it came to pass that the five were liberated on the day of the burial.
Nevertheless, they did rebuke the judges in the words which they had spoken against Nephi, and did contend with them one by one, insomuch that they did confound them.
Nevertheless, they caused that Nephi should be taken and bound and brought before the multitude, and they began to question him in divers ways that they might cross him, that they might accuse him to death— Saying unto him: Thou art confederate; who is this man that hath done this murder?
Now tell us, and acknowledge thy fault; saying, Behold here is amoney; and also we will grant unto thee thy life if thou wilt tell us, and acknowledge the agreement which thou hast made with him.
But Nephi said unto them: O ye afools, ye uncircumcised of heart, ye blind, and ye bstiffnecked people, do ye know how long the Lord your God will suffer you that ye shall go on in this your way of sin?
O ye ought to begin to howl and amourn, because of the great destruction which at this time doth await you, except ye shall repent.
Behold ye say that I have agreed with a man that he should murder Seezoram, our chief judge.
But behold, I say unto you, that this is because I have testified unto you that ye might know concerning this thing; yea, even for a witness unto you, that I did know of the wickedness and abominations which are among you.
And because I have done this, ye say that I have agreed with a man that he should do this thing; yea, because I showed unto you this sign ye are angry with me, and seek to destroy my life.
And now behold, I will show unto you another sign, and see if ye will in this thing seek to destroy me.
Behold I say unto you: Go to the house of Seantum, who is the abrother of Seezoram, and say unto him— Has Nephi, the pretended prophet, who doth prophesy so much evil concerning this people, agreed with thee, in the which ye have murdered Seezoram, who is your brother?
And behold, he shall say unto you, Nay.
And ye shall say unto him: Have ye murdered your brother?
And he shall stand with fear, and wist not what to say.
And behold, he shall deny unto you; and he shall make as if he were astonished; nevertheless, he shall declare unto you that he is innocent.
But behold, ye shall examine him, and ye shall find blood upon the skirts of his cloak.
And when ye have seen this, ye shall say: From whence cometh this blood?
Do we not know that it is the blood of your brother?
And then shall he tremble, and shall look pale, even as if death had come upon him.
And then shall ye say: Because of this fear and this paleness which has come upon your face, behold, we know that thou art guilty.
And then shall greater fear come upon him; and then shall he confess unto you, and deny no more that he has done this murder.
And then shall he say unto you, that I, Nephi, know nothing concerning the matter save it were given unto me by the power of God.
And then shall ye know that I am an honest man, and that I am sent unto you from God.
And it came to pass that they went and did, even according as Nephi had said unto them.
And behold, the words which he had said were true; for according to the words he did deny; and also according to the words he did confess.
And he was brought to prove that he himself was the very murderer, insomuch that the five were set at liberty, and also was Nephi.
And there were some of the Nephites who believed on the words of Nephi; and there were some also, who believed because of the testimony of the five, for they had been converted while they were in prison.
And now there were some among the people, who said that Nephi was a prophet.
And there were others who said: Behold, he is a god, for except he was a god he could not aknow of all things.
For behold, he has told us the thoughts of our hearts, and also has told us things; and even he has brought unto our knowledge the true murderer of our chief judge.
 For behold, it came to pass that fifty and five years had passed away from the time that Lehi left Jerusalem; wherefore, Nephi gave me, Jacob, a acommandment concerning the bsmall plates, upon which these things are engraven.
And he gave me, Jacob, a commandment that I should awrite upon bthese plates a few of the things which I considered to be most precious; that I should not touch, save it were lightly, concerning the history of this people which are called the people of Nephi.
For he said that the history of his people should be engraven upon his aother plates, and that I should bpreserve these plates and hand them down unto my seed, from generation to generation.
And if there were preaching which was asacred, or revelation which was great, or prophesying, that I should engraven the bheads of them upon these plates, and touch upon them as much as it were possible, for Christ’s sake, and for the sake of our people.
For because of faith and great anxiety, it truly had been made manifest unto us concerning our people, what things should ahappen unto them.
And we also had many revelations, and the spirit of much prophecy; wherefore, we knew of aChrist and his kingdom, which should come.
Wherefore we labored diligently among our people, that we might persuade them to acome unto Christ, and partake of the goodness of God, that they might enter into his brest, lest by any means he should swear in his wrath they should not center in, as in the dprovocation in the days of temptation while the children of Israel were in the ewilderness.
Wherefore, we would to God that we could persuade all men anot to rebel against God, to bprovoke him to anger, but that all men would believe in Christ, and view his death, and suffer his ccross and bear the shame of the world; wherefore, I, Jacob, take it upon me to fulfil the commandment of my brother Nephi.
Now Nephi began to be old, and he saw that he must soon adie; wherefore, he banointed a man to be a king and a ruler over his people now, according to the reigns of the ckings.
The people having loved Nephi exceedingly, he having been a great protector for them, having wielded the asword of Laban in their defence, and having labored in all his days for their welfare— Wherefore, the people were desirous to retain in remembrance his name.
And whoso should reign in his stead were called by the people, second Nephi, third Nephi, and so forth, according to the reigns of the kings; and thus they were called by the people, let them be of whatever name they would.
And it came to pass that Nephi died.
Now the people which were not aLamanites were Nephites; nevertheless, they were called Nephites, Jacobites, Josephites, bZoramites, Lamanites, Lemuelites, and Ishmaelites.
But I, Jacob, shall not hereafter distinguish athem by these names, but I shall bcall them Lamanites that seek to destroy the people of Nephi, and those who are friendly to Nephi I shall call cNephites, or the dpeople of Nephi, according to the reigns of the kings.
And now it came to pass that the people of Nephi, under the reign of the second king, began to grow hard in their hearts, and indulge themselves somewhat in wicked practices, such as like unto David of old desiring many awives and bconcubines, and also Solomon, his son.
Yea, and they also began to search much agold and silver, and began to be lifted up somewhat in pride.
Wherefore I, Jacob, gave unto them these words as I taught them in the atemple, having first obtained mine berrand from the Lord.
For I, Jacob, and my brother Joseph had been aconsecrated priests and bteachers of this people, by the hand of Nephi.
And we did amagnify our office unto the Lord, taking upon us the bresponsibility, answering the sins of the people upon our own heads if we did not cteach them the word of God with all diligence; wherefore, by laboring with our might their dblood might not come upon our garments; otherwise their blood would come upon our garments, and we would not be found spotless at the last day.
 The awords which Jacob, the brother of Nephi, spake unto the people of Nephi, after the death of Nephi: Now, my beloved brethren, I, Jacob, according to the aresponsibility which I am under to God, to bmagnify mine office with csoberness, and that I might drid my garments of your sins, I come up into the temple this day that I might declare unto you the word of God.
And ye yourselves know that I have hitherto been diligent in the office of my calling; but I this day am weighed down with much more desire and anxiety for the awelfare of your souls than I have hitherto been.
For behold, as yet, ye have been obedient unto the word of the Lord, which I have given unto you.
But behold, hearken ye unto me, and know that by the help of the all-powerful Creator of heaven and earth I can tell you concerning your athoughts, how that ye are beginning to labor in sin, which sin appeareth very abominable unto me, yea, and abominable unto God.
Yea, it grieveth my soul and causeth me to shrink with shame before the presence of my Maker, that I must testify unto you concerning the wickedness of your hearts.
And also it grieveth me that I must use so much aboldness of speech concerning you, before your wives and your children, many of whose feelings are exceedingly tender and bchaste and delicate before God, which thing is pleasing unto God; And it supposeth me that they have come up hither to hear the pleasing aword of God, yea, the word which healeth the wounded soul.
Wherefore, it burdeneth my soul that I should be constrained, because of the strict commandment which I have received from God, to aadmonish you according to your crimes, to enlarge the wounds of those who are already wounded, instead of consoling and healing their wounds; and those who have not been wounded, instead of feasting upon the pleasing word of God have daggers placed to pierce their souls and wound their delicate minds.
But, notwithstanding the greatness of the task, I must do according to the strict acommands of God, and tell you concerning your wickedness and abominations, in the presence of the pure in heart, and the broken heart, and under the glance of the bpiercing eye of the Almighty God.
Wherefore, I must tell you the truth according to the aplainness of the bword of God.
For behold, as I inquired of the Lord, thus came the word unto me, saying: Jacob, get thou up into the temple on the morrow, and declare the word which I shall give thee unto this people.
And now behold, my brethren, this is the word which I declare unto you, that many of you have begun to search for gold, and for silver, and for all manner of precious aores, in the which this land, which is a bland of promise unto you and to your seed, doth abound most plentifully.
And the hand of providence hath smiled upon you most pleasingly, that you have obtained many riches; and because some of you have obtained more abundantly than that of your brethren ye are alifted up in the pride of your hearts, and wear stiff necks and high heads because of the costliness of your apparel, and persecute your brethren because ye suppose that ye are better than they.
And now, my brethren, do ye suppose that God justifieth you in this thing?
Behold, I say unto you, Nay.
But he condemneth you, and if ye persist in these things his judgments must speedily come unto you.
O that he would show you that he can pierce you, and with one glance of his aeye he can smite you to the dust!
O that he would rid you from this iniquity and abomination.
And, O that ye would listen unto the word of his commands, and let not this apride of your hearts destroy your souls!
Think of your abrethren like unto yourselves, and be familiar with all and free with your bsubstance, that cthey may be rich like unto you.
But abefore ye seek for briches, seek ye for the ckingdom of God.
And after ye have obtained a hope in Christ ye shall obtain riches, if ye seek them; and ye will seek them for the intent to ado good—to clothe the naked, and to feed the hungry, and to liberate the captive, and administer relief to the sick and the afflicted.
And now, my brethren, I have spoken unto you concerning pride; and those of you which have afflicted your neighbor, and persecuted him because ye were proud in your hearts, of the things which God hath given you, what say ye of it?
Do ye not suppose that such things are abominable unto him who created all flesh?
And the one being is as precious in his sight as the other.
And all flesh is of the dust; and for the selfsame end hath he created them, that they should keep his acommandments and glorify him forever.
And now I make an end of speaking unto you concerning this pride.
And were it not that I must speak unto you concerning a grosser crime, my heart would rejoice exceedingly because of you.
But the word of God burdens me because of your grosser crimes.
For behold, thus saith the Lord: This people begin to wax in iniquity; they understand not the scriptures, for they seek to excuse themselves in committing awhoredoms, because of the things which were written concerning David, and Solomon his son.
Behold, David and aSolomon truly had many bwives and concubines, which thing was cabominable before me, saith the Lord.
Wherefore, thus saith the Lord, I have led this people forth out of the land of Jerusalem, by the power of mine arm, that I might raise up unto me a arighteous branch from the fruit of the loins of Joseph.
Wherefore, I the Lord God will not suffer that this people shall do like unto them of old.
Wherefore, my brethren, hear me, and hearken to the word of the Lord: For there shall not any aman among you have save it be bone cwife; and concubines he shall have none; For I, the Lord God, delight in the achastity of women.
And bwhoredoms are an abomination before me; thus saith the Lord of Hosts.
Wherefore, this people shall keep my commandments, saith the Lord of Hosts, or acursed be the land for their sakes.
For if I will, saith the Lord of Hosts, raise up aseed unto me, I will command my people; otherwise they shall hearken unto these things.
For behold, I, the Lord, have seen the sorrow, and heard the mourning of the daughters of my people in the land of Jerusalem, yea, and in all the lands of my people, because of the wickedness and aabominations of their bhusbands.
And I will not suffer, saith the Lord of Hosts, that the cries of the fair daughters of this people, which I have led out of the land of Jerusalem, shall come up unto me against the men of my people, saith the Lord of Hosts.
For they shall not lead away captive the daughters of my people because of their tenderness, save I shall visit them with a sore curse, even unto destruction; for they shall not commit awhoredoms, like unto them of old, saith the Lord of Hosts.
And now behold, my brethren, ye know that these commandments were given to our afather, Lehi; wherefore, ye have known them before; and ye have come unto great condemnation; for ye have done these things which ye ought not to have done.
Behold, ye have done agreater iniquities than the Lamanites, our brethren.
Ye have broken the hearts of your tender wives, and lost the confidence of your children, because of your bad examples before them; and the sobbings of their hearts ascend up to God against you.
And because of the bstrictness of the word of God, which cometh down against you, many hearts died, pierced with deep wounds.
 But behold, I, Jacob, would speak unto you that are pure in heart.
Look unto God with firmness of mind, and apray unto him with exceeding faith, and he will bconsole you in your cafflictions, and he will plead your cause, and send down djustice upon those who seek your destruction.
O all ye that are pure in heart, lift up your heads and receive the pleasing word of God, and feast upon his alove; for ye may, if your bminds are cfirm, forever.
But, wo, wo, unto you that are not pure in heart, that are filthy this day before God; for except ye repent the land is acursed for your sakes; and the Lamanites, which are not bfilthy like unto you, nevertheless they are ccursed with a sore cursing, shall scourge you even unto destruction.
And the time speedily cometh, that except ye repent they shall possess the land of your inheritance, and the Lord God will alead away the righteous out from among you.
Behold, the Lamanites your brethren, whom ye hate because of their filthiness and the cursing which hath come upon their skins, are more righteous than you; for they have not aforgotten the commandment of the Lord, which was given unto our father—that they should have save it were bone wife, and cconcubines they should have none, and there should not be dwhoredoms committed among them.
And now, this commandment they observe to keep; wherefore, because of this observance, in keeping this commandment, the Lord God will not destroy them, but will be amerciful unto them; and one day they shall bbecome a blessed people.
Behold, their ahusbands blove their cwives, and their wives love their husbands; and their husbands and their wives love their children; and their dunbelief and their hatred towards you is because of the iniquity of their fathers; wherefore, how much better are you than they, in the sight of your great Creator?
O my brethren, I fear that unless ye shall repent of your sins that their skins will be awhiter than yours, when ye shall be brought with them before the throne of God.
Wherefore, a commandment I give unto you, which is the word of God, that ye arevile no more against them because of the darkness of their skins; neither shall ye revile against them because of their filthiness; but ye shall remember your own filthiness, and remember that their filthiness came because of their fathers.
Wherefore, ye shall remember your achildren, how that ye have grieved their hearts because of the bexample that ye have set before them; and also, remember that ye may, because of your filthiness, bring your children unto destruction, and their sins be heaped upon your heads at the last day.
O my brethren, hearken unto my words; aarouse the faculties of your souls; shake yourselves that ye may bawake from the slumber of death; and loose yourselves from the pains of chell that ye may not become dangels to the devil, to be cast into that lake of fire and brimstone which is the second edeath.
And now I, Jacob, spake many more things unto the people of Nephi, awarning them against bfornication and clasciviousness, and every kind of sin, telling them the awful consequences of them.
And a hundredth part of the proceedings of this people, which now began to be numerous, cannot be written upon athese plates; but many of their proceedings are written upon the blarger plates, and their wars, and their contentions, and the reigns of their kings.
aThese plates are called the plates of Jacob, and they were bmade by the hand of Nephi.
And I make an end of speaking these words.
 Now behold, it came to pass that I, Jacob, having ministered much unto my people in word, (and I cannot write but a alittle of my words, because of the bdifficulty of engraving our words upon plates) and we know that the things which we write upon plates must remain; But whatsoever things we write upon anything save it be upon aplates must perish and vanish away; but we can write a few words upon plates, which will give our children, and also our beloved brethren, a small degree of knowledge concerning us, or concerning their fathers— Now in this thing we do rejoice; and we labor diligently to engraven these words upon plates, hoping that our beloved brethren and our children will receive them with thankful hearts, and look upon them that they may learn with joy and not with sorrow, neither with contempt, concerning their first aparents.
For, for this intent have we written these things, that they may know that we aknew of Christ, and we had a hope of his bglory many hundred years before his coming; and not only we ourselves had a hope of his glory, but also all the holy cprophets which were before us.
Behold, they believed in Christ and aworshiped the Father in his name, and also we worship the Father in his bname.
And for this intent we ckeep the dlaw of Moses, it epointing our souls to him; and for this cause it is sanctified unto us for righteousness, even as it was accounted unto Abraham in the wilderness to be obedient unto the commands of God in offering up his son Isaac, which is a fsimilitude of God and his gOnly Begotten Son.
Wherefore, we search the prophets, and we have many revelations and the spirit of aprophecy; and having all these bwitnesses we obtain a hope, and our faith becometh unshaken, insomuch that we truly can ccommand in the dname of Jesus and the very trees obey us, or the mountains, or the waves of the sea.
Nevertheless, the Lord God showeth us our aweakness that we may know that it is by his bgrace, and his great condescensions unto the children of men, that we have power to do these things.
Behold, great and marvelous are the aworks of the Lord.
How bunsearchable are the depths of the cmysteries of him; and it is impossible that man should find out all his ways.
And no man dknoweth of his eways save it be revealed unto him; wherefore, brethren, despise not the frevelations of God.
For behold, by the power of his aword bman came upon the face of the earth, which earth was ccreated by the power of his word.
Wherefore, if God being able to speak and the world was, and to speak and man was created, O then, why not able to command the dearth, or the workmanship of his hands upon the face of it, according to his will and pleasure?
Wherefore, brethren, seek not to acounsel the Lord, but to take counsel from his hand.
For behold, ye yourselves know that he counseleth in bwisdom, and in justice, and in great mercy, over all his works.
Wherefore, beloved brethren, be areconciled unto him through the batonement of Christ, his cOnly Begotten Son, and ye may obtain a dresurrection, according to the epower of the resurrection which is in Christ, and be presented as the ffirst-fruits of Christ unto God, having faith, and obtained a good hope of glory in him before he manifesteth himself in the flesh.
And now, beloved, marvel not that I tell you these things; for why not aspeak of the atonement of Christ, and attain to a perfect knowledge of him, as to attain to the knowledge of a resurrection and the world to come?
Behold, my brethren, he that prophesieth, let him prophesy to the understanding of men; for the aSpirit speaketh the btruth and lieth not.
Wherefore, it speaketh of things as they really care, and of things as they really will be; wherefore, these things are manifested unto us dplainly, for the salvation of our souls.
But behold, we are not witnesses alone in these things; for God also espake them unto prophets of old.
But behold, the Jews were a astiffnecked people; and they bdespised the words of cplainness, and dkilled the prophets, and sought for things that they could not understand.
Wherefore, because of their eblindness, which fblindness came by looking beyond the gmark, they must needs fall; for God hath taken away his plainness from them, and delivered unto them many things which they hcannot understand, because they desired it.
And because they desired it God hath done it, that they may istumble.
And now I, Jacob, am led on by the Spirit unto prophesying; for I perceive by the workings of the Spirit which is in me, that by the astumbling of the bJews they will creject the dstone upon which they might build and have safe foundation.
But behold, according to the scriptures, this astone shall become the great, and the last, and the only sure bfoundation, upon which the Jews can build.
And now, my beloved, how is it possible that these, after having rejected the sure foundation, can aever build upon it, that it may become the head of their corner?
Behold, my beloved brethren, I will unfold this mystery unto you; if I do not, by any means, get shaken from my firmness in the Spirit, and stumble because of my over anxiety for you.
 Behold, my brethren, do ye not remember to have read the words of the prophet aZenos, which he spake unto the house of Israel, saying: Hearken, O ye house of Israel, and hear the words of me, a prophet of the Lord.
For behold, thus saith the Lord, I will liken thee, O house of aIsrael, like unto a tame bolive tree, which a man took and nourished in his cvineyard; and it grew, and waxed old, and began to ddecay.
And it came to pass that the master of the vineyard went forth, and he saw that his olive tree began to decay; and he said: I will aprune it, and dig about it, and nourish it, that perhaps it may shoot forth young and tender branches, and it perish not.
And it came to pass that he apruned it, and digged about it, and nourished it according to his word.
And it came to pass that after many days it began to put forth somewhat a little, young and tender branches; but behold, the main atop thereof began to perish.
And it came to pass that the master of the vineyard saw it, and he said unto his aservant: It grieveth me that I should lose this tree; wherefore, go and pluck the branches from a bwild olive tree, and bring them hither unto me; and we will pluck off those main branches which are beginning to wither away, and we will cast them into the fire that they may be burned.
And behold, saith the Lord of the vineyard, I take aaway many of these young and tender branches, and I will graft them bwhithersoever I will; and it mattereth not that if it so be that the root of this tree will perish, I may preserve the fruit thereof unto myself; wherefore, I will take these young and tender branches, and I will graft them whithersoever I will.
Take thou the branches of the wild olive tree, and graft them in, in the astead thereof; and these which I have plucked off I will cast into the fire and burn them, that they may not cumber the ground of my vineyard.
And it came to pass that the servant of the Lord of the vineyard did according to the word of the Lord of the vineyard, and grafted in the branches of the awild olive tree.
And the Lord of the vineyard caused that it should be digged about, and pruned, and nourished, saying unto his servant: It grieveth me that I should lose this tree; wherefore, that perhaps I might preserve the roots thereof that they perish not, that I might preserve them unto myself, I have done this thing.
Wherefore, go thy way; watch the tree, and nourish it, according to my words.
And these will I aplace in the nethermost part of my vineyard, whithersoever I will, it mattereth not unto thee; and I do it that I may preserve unto myself the natural branches of the tree; and also, that I may lay up fruit thereof against the season, unto myself; for it grieveth me that I should lose this tree and the fruit thereof.
And it came to pass that the Lord of the vineyard went his way, and hid the natural abranches of the tame olive tree in the nethermost parts of the vineyard, some in one and some in another, according to his will and pleasure.
And it came to pass that a long time passed away, and the Lord of the vineyard said unto his servant: Come, let us go down into the vineyard, that we may alabor in the vineyard.
And it came to pass that the Lord of the vineyard, and also the servant, went down into the vineyard to labor.
And it came to pass that the servant said unto his master: Behold, look here; behold the tree.
And it came to pass that the Lord of the vineyard looked and beheld the tree in the which the wild olive branches had been grafted; and it had sprung forth and begun to bear afruit.
And he beheld that it was good; and the fruit thereof was like unto the natural fruit.
And he said unto the servant: Behold, the branches of the wild tree have taken hold of the moisture of the root thereof, that the root thereof hath brought forth much strength; and because of the much strength of the root thereof the wild branches have brought forth tame fruit.
Now, if we had not grafted in these branches, the tree thereof would have perished.
And now, behold, I shall lay up much fruit, which the tree thereof hath brought forth; and the fruit thereof I shall lay up against the season, unto mine own self.
And it came to pass that the Lord of the vineyard said unto the servant: Come, let us go to the nethermost part of the vineyard, and behold if the natural branches of the tree have not brought forth much fruit also, that I may lay up of the fruit thereof against the season, unto mine own self.
And it came to pass that they went forth whither the master had hid the natural branches of the tree, and he said unto the servant: Behold these; and he beheld the afirst that it had bbrought forth much fruit; and he beheld also that it was good.
And he said unto the servant: Take of the fruit thereof, and lay it up against the season, that I may preserve it unto mine own self; for behold, said he, this long time have I nourished it, and it hath brought forth much fruit.
And it came to pass that the servant said unto his master: How comest thou hither to plant this tree, or this branch of the tree?
For behold, it was the poorest spot in all the land of thy vineyard.
And the Lord of the vineyard said unto him: Counsel me not; I knew that it was a poor spot of ground; wherefore, I said unto thee, I have nourished it this long time, and thou beholdest that it hath brought forth much fruit.
And it came to pass that the Lord of the vineyard said unto his servant: Look hither; behold I have planted another branch of the tree also; and thou knowest that this spot of ground was poorer than the first.
But, behold the tree.
I have nourished it this long time, and it hath brought forth much fruit; therefore, gather it, and lay it up against the season, that I may preserve it unto mine own self.
And it came to pass that the Lord of the vineyard said again unto his servant: Look hither, and behold another abranch also, which I have planted; behold that I have nourished it also, and it hath brought forth fruit.
And he said unto the servant: Look hither and behold the last.
Behold, this have I planted in a agood spot of ground; and I have nourished it this long time, and only a bpart of the tree hath brought forth tame fruit, and the cother part of the tree hath brought forth wild fruit; behold, I have nourished this tree like unto the others.
And it came to pass that the Lord of the vineyard said unto the servant: Pluck off the branches that have not brought forth good afruit, and cast them into the fire.
But behold, the servant said unto him: Let us prune it, and dig about it, and nourish it a little alonger, that perhaps it may bring forth good fruit unto thee, that thou canst lay it up against the season.
And it came to pass that the Lord of the vineyard and the servant of the Lord of the vineyard did nourish all the fruit of the vineyard.
And it came to pass that a along time had passed away, and the Lord of the vineyard said unto his bservant: Come, let us go down into the vineyard, that we may labor again in the vineyard.
For behold, the time draweth near, and the cend soon cometh; wherefore, I must lay up fruit against the season, unto mine own self.
And it came to pass that the Lord of the vineyard and the servant went down into the vineyard; and they came to the tree whose natural branches had been broken off, and the wild branches had been grafted in; and behold all asorts of fruit did cumber the tree.
And it came to pass that the Lord of the vineyard did ataste of the fruit, every sort according to its number.
And the Lord of the vineyard said: Behold, this long time have we nourished this tree, and I have laid up unto myself against the season much fruit.
But behold, this time it hath brought forth much afruit, and there is bnone of it which is good.
And behold, there are all kinds of bad fruit; and it profiteth me nothing, notwithstanding all our labor; and now it grieveth me that I should lose this tree.
And the Lord of the vineyard said unto the servant: What shall we do unto the tree, that I may preserve again good fruit thereof unto mine own self?
And the servant said unto his master: Behold, because thou didst graft in the branches of the wild olive tree they have nourished the roots, that they are alive and they have not perished; wherefore thou beholdest that they are yet good.
And it came to pass that the Lord of the vineyard said unto his servant: The tree profiteth me nothing, and the roots thereof profit me nothing so long as it shall bring forth evil fruit.
Nevertheless, I know that the roots are good, and for mine own purpose I have preserved them; and because of their much strength they have hitherto brought forth, from the wild branches, good fruit.
But behold, the wild branches have grown and have aoverrun the roots thereof; and because that the wild branches have overcome the roots thereof it hath brought forth much evil fruit; and because that it hath brought forth so much evil fruit thou beholdest that it beginneth to perish; and it will soon become ripened, that it may be cast into the fire, except we should do something for it to preserve it.
And it came to pass that the Lord of the vineyard said unto his servant: Let us go down into the nethermost parts of the vineyard, and behold if the natural branches have also brought forth evil fruit.
And it came to pass that they went down into the nethermost parts of the vineyard.
And it came to pass that they beheld that the fruit of the natural branches had become corrupt also; yea, the afirst and the second and also the last; and they had all become corrupt.
And the awild fruit of the last had overcome that part of the tree which brought forth good fruit, even that the branch had withered away and died.
And it came to pass that the Lord of the vineyard wept, and said unto the servant: aWhat could I have done more for my vineyard?
Behold, I knew that all the fruit of the vineyard, save it were these, had become acorrupted.
And now these which have once brought forth good fruit have also become corrupted; and now all the trees of my vineyard are good for nothing save it be to be bhewn down and cast into the fire.
And behold this last, whose branch hath withered away, I did plant in a agood spot of ground; yea, even that which was choice unto me above all other parts of the land of my vineyard.
And thou beheldest that I also cut down that which acumbered this spot of ground, that I might plant this tree in the stead thereof.
And thou beheldest that a apart thereof brought forth good fruit, and a part thereof brought forth wild fruit; and because I plucked not the branches thereof and cast them into the fire, behold, they have overcome the good branch that it hath withered away.
And now, behold, notwithstanding all the care which we have taken of my vineyard, the trees thereof have become corrupted, that they bring forth no good afruit; and these I had hoped to preserve, to have laid up fruit thereof against the season, unto mine own self.
But, behold, they have become like unto the wild olive tree, and they are of no worth but to be bhewn down and cast into the fire; and it grieveth me that I should lose them.
But awhat could I have done more in my vineyard?
Have I slackened mine hand, that I have not nourished it?
Nay, I have nourished it, and I have digged about it, and I have pruned it, and I have dunged it; and I have bstretched forth mine chand almost all the day long, and the dend draweth nigh.
And it grieveth me that I should hew down all the trees of my vineyard, and cast them into the fire that they should be burned.
Who is it that has corrupted my vineyard?
And it came to pass that the servant said unto his master: Is it not the aloftiness of thy vineyard—have not the branches thereof overcome the roots which are good?
And because the branches have overcome the roots thereof, behold they grew faster than the strength of the roots, btaking strength unto themselves.
Behold, I say, is not this the cause that the trees of thy vineyard have become corrupted?
And it came to pass that the Lord of the vineyard said unto the servant: Let us go to and hew down the trees of the vineyard and cast them into the fire, that they shall not cumber the ground of my vineyard, for I have done all.
What could I have done more for my vineyard?
But, behold, the servant said unto the Lord of the vineyard: Spare it a little alonger.
And the Lord said: Yea, I will spare it a little longer, for it grieveth me that I should lose the trees of my vineyard.
Wherefore, let us take of the abranches of these which I have planted in the nethermost parts of my vineyard, and let us graft them into the tree from whence they came; and let us pluck from the tree those branches whose fruit is most bitter, and graft in the natural branches of the tree in the stead thereof.
And this will I do that the tree may not perish, that, perhaps, I may preserve unto myself the roots thereof for mine aown purpose.
And, behold, the roots of the natural branches of the tree which I planted whithersoever I would are yet alive; wherefore, that I may preserve them also for mine own purpose, I will take of the abranches of this tree, and I will bgraft them in unto them.
Yea, I will graft in unto them the branches of their mother tree, that I may preserve the roots also unto mine own self, that when they shall be sufficiently strong perhaps they may bring forth good fruit unto me, and I may yet have glory in the fruit of my vineyard.
And it came to pass that they took from the natural tree which had become wild, and grafted in unto the natural trees, which also had become wild.
And they also took of the natural trees which had become wild, and agrafted into their mother tree.
And the Lord of the vineyard said unto the servant: Pluck not the wild branches from the trees, save it be those which are most bitter; and in them ye shall graft according to that which I have said.
And we will nourish again the trees of the vineyard, and we will trim up the abranches thereof; and we will pluck from the trees those branches which are ripened, that must perish, and cast them into the fire.
And this I do that, perhaps, the roots thereof may take strength because of their goodness; and because of the change of the branches, that the good may aovercome the evil.
And because that I have preserved the natural branches and the roots thereof, and that I have grafted in the natural branches again into their mother tree, and have preserved the roots of their mother tree, that, perhaps, the trees of my vineyard may bring forth again good afruit; and that I may have joy again in the fruit of my vineyard, and, perhaps, that I may rejoice exceedingly that I have preserved the roots and the branches of the first fruit— Wherefore, go to, and call aservants, that we may blabor diligently with our might in the vineyard, that we may cprepare the way, that I may bring forth again the natural fruit, which natural fruit is good and the most precious above all other fruit.
Wherefore, let us go to and labor with our might this last time, for behold the end draweth nigh, and this is for the last time that I shall aprune my vineyard.
Graft in the branches; begin at the alast that they may be first, and that the first may be blast, and dig about the trees, both old and young, the first and the last; and the last and the first, that all may be nourished once again for the last time.
Wherefore, dig about them, and prune them, and dung them once more, for the last time, for the end draweth nigh.
And if it be so that these last grafts shall grow, and bring forth the natural fruit, then shall ye prepare the way for them, that they may grow.
And as they begin to grow ye shall aclear away the branches which bring forth bitter fruit, according to the strength of the good and the size thereof; and ye shall not clear away the bad thereof all at once, lest the roots thereof should be too strong for the graft, and the graft thereof shall perish, and I lose the trees of my vineyard.
For it grieveth me that I should lose the trees of my vineyard; wherefore ye shall clear away the bad according as the good shall grow, that the root and the top may be equal in strength, until the good shall overcome the bad, and the bad be hewn down and cast into the fire, that they cumber not the ground of my vineyard; and thus will I sweep away the bad out of my vineyard.
And the branches of the natural tree will I graft in again into the natural tree; And the branches of the natural tree will I graft into the natural branches of the tree; and thus will I bring them together again, that they shall bring forth the natural afruit, and they shall be one.
And the bad shall be acast away, yea, even out of all the land of my vineyard; for behold, only this once will I prune my vineyard.
And it came to pass that the Lord of the vineyard sent his aservant; and the servant went and did as the Lord had commanded him, and brought other bservants; and they were cfew.
And the Lord of the vineyard said unto them: Go to, and alabor in the vineyard, with your might.
For behold, this is the blast time that I shall cnourish my vineyard; for the end is nigh at hand, and the season speedily cometh; and if ye labor with your might with me ye shall have joy in the fruit which I shall lay up unto myself against the time which will soon come.
And it came to pass that the servants did go and labor with their mights; and the Lord of the vineyard labored also with them; and they did obey the commandments of the Lord of the vineyard in all things.
And there began to be the natural fruit again in the vineyard; and the natural branches began to grow and thrive exceedingly; and the wild branches began to be plucked off and to be cast away; and they did keep the root and the top thereof equal, according to the strength thereof.
And thus they labored, with all diligence, according to the commandments of the Lord of the vineyard, even until the bad had been cast away out of the vineyard, and the Lord had preserved unto himself that the trees had become again the natural fruit; and they became like unto aone body; and the fruits were equal; and the Lord of the vineyard had preserved unto himself the natural fruit, which was most precious unto him from the beginning.
And it came to pass that when the aLord of the vineyard saw that his fruit was good, and that his vineyard was no more corrupt, he called up his servants, and said unto them: Behold, for this last time have we nourished my vineyard; and thou beholdest that I have done according to my will; and I have preserved the natural fruit, that it is good, even like as it was in the beginning.
And bblessed art thou; for because ye have been diligent in laboring with me in my vineyard, and have kept my commandments, and have brought unto me again the cnatural fruit, that my vineyard is no more corrupted, and the bad is cast away, behold ye shall have djoy with me because of the fruit of my vineyard.
For behold, for a along time will I lay up of the fruit of my vineyard unto mine own self against the season, which speedily cometh; and for the last time have I nourished my vineyard, and pruned it, and dug about it, and dunged it; wherefore I will lay up unto mine own self of the fruit, for a long time, according to that which I have spoken.
And when the time cometh that evil fruit shall again come into my vineyard, then will I cause the agood and the bad to be gathered; and the good will I preserve unto myself, and the bad will I cast away into its own place.
And then cometh the bseason and the end; and my vineyard will I cause to be cburned with dfire.
 And now, behold, my brethren, as I said unto you that I would prophesy, behold, this is my prophecy—that the things which this prophet aZenos spake, concerning the house of Israel, in the which he likened them unto a tame bolive tree, must surely come to pass.
And the day that he shall set his hand again the second time to arecover his people, is the day, yea, even the last time, that the bservants of the Lord shall go forth in his cpower, to dnourish and prune his evineyard; and after that the fend soon cometh.
And how ablessed are they who have labored bdiligently in his vineyard; and how ccursed are they who shall be cast out into their own place!
And the dworld shall be eburned with fire.
And how merciful is our God unto us, for he remembereth the house of aIsrael, both roots and branches; and he stretches forth his bhands unto them all the day long; and they are a cstiffnecked and a gainsaying people; but as many as will not harden their hearts shall be saved in the kingdom of God.
Wherefore, my beloved brethren, I beseech of you in words of soberness that ye would repent, and come with full purpose of heart, and acleave unto God as he cleaveth unto you.
And while his barm of mercy is extended towards you in the light of the day, harden not your hearts.
Yea, today, if ye will hear his voice, harden not your hearts; for why will ye adie?
For behold, after ye have been nourished by the good aword of God all the day long, will ye bring forth evil fruit, that ye must be bhewn down and cast into the fire?
Behold, will ye reject these words?
Will ye reject the words of the aprophets; and will ye reject all the words which have been spoken concerning Christ, after so many have spoken concerning him; and bdeny the good word of Christ, and the power of God, and the cgift of the Holy Ghost, and quench the Holy Spirit, and make a dmock of the great plan of redemption, which hath been laid for you?
Know ye not that if ye will do these things, that the power of the redemption and the resurrection, which is in Christ, will bring you to stand with ashame and bawful cguilt before the bar of God?
And according to the power of ajustice, for justice cannot be denied, ye must go away into that blake of fire and brimstone, whose flames are unquenchable, and whose smoke ascendeth up forever and ever, which lake of fire and brimstone is cendless dtorment.
O then, my beloved brethren, repent ye, and enter in at the astrait gate, and bcontinue in the way which is narrow, until ye shall obtain eternal life.
O be awise; what can I say more?
Finally, I bid you farewell, until I shall meet you before the apleasing bar of God, which bar striketh the wicked with bawful dread and fear.
Amen.
 And now it came to pass after some years had passed away, there came a man among the people of Nephi, whose name was aSherem.
And it came to pass that he began to preach among the people, and to declare unto them that there should be ano Christ.
And he preached many things which were flattering unto the people; and this he did that he might boverthrow the doctrine of Christ.
And he labored diligently that he might lead away the hearts of the people, insomuch that he did lead away many hearts; and he knowing that I, Jacob, had faith in Christ who should come, he sought much opportunity that he might come unto me.
And he was alearned, that he had a perfect knowledge of the language of the people; wherefore, he could use much bflattery, and much power of speech, according to the cpower of the devil.
And he had hope to shake me from the faith, notwithstanding the many arevelations and the many things which I had seen concerning these things; for I truly had seen bangels, and they had ministered unto me.
And also, I had cheard the voice of the Lord speaking unto me in very word, from time to time; wherefore, I could not be shaken.
And it came to pass that he came unto me, and on this wise did he speak unto me, saying: Brother Jacob, I have sought much opportunity that I might speak unto you; for I have heard and also know that thou goest about much, preaching that which ye call the agospel, or the doctrine of Christ.
And ye have led away much of this people that they pervert the right way of God, and akeep not the law of Moses which is the right way; and convert the law of Moses into the worship of a being which ye say shall come many hundred years hence.
And now behold, I, Sherem, declare unto you that this is bblasphemy; for no man knoweth of such things; for he cannot ctell of things to come.
And after this manner did Sherem contend against me.
But behold, the Lord God poured in his aSpirit into my soul, insomuch that I did bconfound him in all his words.
And I said unto him: Deniest thou the Christ who shall come?
And he said: If there should be a Christ, I would not deny him; but I know that there is no Christ, neither has been, nor ever will be.
And I said unto him: Believest thou the scriptures?
And he said, Yea.
And I said unto him: Then ye do not understand them; for they truly testify of Christ.
Behold, I say unto you that none of the aprophets have written, nor bprophesied, save they have spoken concerning this Christ.
And this is not all—it has been made manifest unto me, for I have heard and seen; and it also has been made manifest unto me by the apower of the Holy Ghost; wherefore, I know if there should be no atonement made all mankind must be blost.
And it came to pass that he said unto me: Show me a asign by this power of the Holy Ghost, in the which ye know so much.
And I said unto him: What am I that I should atempt God to show unto thee a sign in the thing which thou knowest to be btrue?
Yet thou wilt deny it, because thou art of the cdevil.
Nevertheless, not my will be done; but if God shall smite thee, let that be a dsign unto thee that he has power, both in heaven and in earth; and also, that Christ shall come.
And thy will, O Lord, be done, and not mine.
And it came to pass that when I, Jacob, had spoken these words, the power of the Lord came upon him, insomuch that he fell to the earth.
And it came to pass that he was nourished for the space of many days.
And it came to pass that he said unto the people: Gather together on the morrow, for I shall die; wherefore, I desire to speak unto the people before I shall die.
And it came to pass that on the morrow the multitude were gathered together; and he spake plainly unto them and denied the things which he had taught them, and confessed the Christ, and the power of the Holy Ghost, and the ministering of angels.
And he spake plainly unto them, that he had been adeceived by the power of the bdevil.
And he spake of hell, and of ceternity, and of eternal dpunishment.
And he said: I afear lest I have committed the bunpardonable sin, for I have lied unto God; for I denied the Christ, and said that I believed the scriptures; and they truly testify of him.
And because I have thus lied unto God I greatly fear lest my case shall be cawful; but I confess unto God.
And it came to pass that when he had said these words he could say no more, and he agave up the bghost.
And when the multitude had witnessed that he spake these things as he was about to give up the ghost, they were astonished exceedingly; insomuch that the power of God came down upon them, and they were aovercome that they fell to the earth.
Now, this thing was pleasing unto me, Jacob, for I had requested it of my Father who was in heaven; for he had heard my cry and answered my prayer.
And it came to pass that peace and the alove of God was restored again among the people; and they bsearched the scriptures, and hearkened no more to the words of this wicked man.
And it came to pass that many means were devised to areclaim and restore the Lamanites to the knowledge of the truth; but it all was bvain, for they delighted in cwars and dbloodshed, and they had an eternal ehatred against us, their brethren.
And they sought by the power of their arms to destroy us continually.
Wherefore, the people of Nephi did fortify against them with their arms, and with all their might, trusting in the God and arock of their salvation; wherefore, they became as yet, conquerors of their enemies.
And it came to pass that I, Jacob, began to be old; and the record of this people being kept on the aother plates of Nephi, wherefore, I conclude this record, declaring that I have written according to the best of my knowledge, by saying that the time passed away with us, and also our blives passed away like as it were unto us a cdream, we being a dlonesome and a solemn people, ewanderers, cast out from Jerusalem, born in tribulation, in a wilderness, and hated of our brethren, which caused wars and contentions; wherefore, we did mourn out our days.
And I, Jacob, saw that I must soon go down to my grave; wherefore, I said unto my son aEnos: Take these bplates.
And I told him the things which my brother Nephi had ccommanded me, and he promised obedience unto the commands.
And I make an end of my writing upon these plates, which writing has been dsmall; and to the reader I bid farewell, hoping that many of my brethren may read my words.
Brethren, adieu.
 Now behold, I, Jarom, write a few words according to the commandment of my father, Enos, that our agenealogy may be kept.
And as athese plates are bsmall, and as these things are cwritten for the intent of the benefit of our brethren the dLamanites, wherefore, it must needs be that I write a little; but I shall not write the things of my prophesying, nor of my revelations.
For what could I write more than my fathers have written?
For have not they revealed the plan of salvation?
I say unto you, Yea; and this sufficeth me.
Behold, it is expedient that much should be done among this people, because of the hardness of their hearts, and the deafness of their ears, and the blindness of their minds, and the astiffness of their necks; nevertheless, God is exceedingly merciful unto them, and has not as yet bswept them off from the face of the land.
And there are many among us who have many arevelations, for they are not all bstiffnecked.
And as many as are not stiffnecked and have faith, have ccommunion with the Holy Spirit, which maketh manifest unto the children of men, according to their faith.
And now, behold, two hundred years had passed away, and the people of Nephi had waxed strong in the land.
They observed to akeep the law of Moses and the bsabbath day holy unto the Lord.
And they cprofaned not; neither did they dblaspheme.
And the elaws of the land were exceedingly strict.
And they were scattered upon amuch of the face of the land, and the Lamanites also.
And they were exceedingly more bnumerous than were they of the Nephites; and they loved cmurder and would drink the dblood of beasts.
And it came to pass that they came many times against us, the Nephites, to battle.
But our akings and our bleaders were mighty men in the faith of the Lord; and they taught the people the ways of the Lord; wherefore, we withstood the Lamanites and swept them away out of cour lands, and began to fortify our cities, or whatsoever place of our inheritance.
And we multiplied exceedingly, and spread upon the face of the land, and became exceedingly rich in agold, and in silver, and in precious things, and in fine bworkmanship of wood, in buildings, and in cmachinery, and also in iron and copper, and brass and steel, making all manner of tools of every kind to till the ground, and dweapons of war—yea, the sharp pointed arrow, and the quiver, and the dart, and the javelin, and all preparations for war.
And thus being prepared to meet the Lamanites, they did not prosper against us.
But the word of the Lord was verified, which he spake unto our fathers, saying that: aInasmuch as ye will keep my commandments ye shall bprosper in the land.
And it came to pass that the prophets of the Lord did threaten the people of Nephi, according to the word of God, that if they did not keep the commandments, but should fall into transgression, they should be adestroyed from off the face of the land.
Wherefore, the prophets, and the priests, and the ateachers, did labor diligently, exhorting with all long-suffering the people to bdiligence; teaching the claw of Moses, and the intent for which it was given; persuading them to dlook forward unto the Messiah, and believe in him to come eas though he already was.
And after this manner did they teach them.
And it came to pass that by so doing they kept them from being adestroyed upon the face of the land; for they did bprick their hearts with the word, ccontinually stirring them up unto repentance.
And it came to pass that two hundred and thirty and eight years had passed away—after the manner of wars, and acontentions, and dissensions, for the space of bmuch of the time.
And I, Jarom, do not write more, for the plates are asmall.
But behold, my brethren, ye can go to the bother plates of Nephi; for behold, upon them the records of our wars are engraven, according to the writings of the ckings, or those which they caused to be written.
And I deliver these plates into the hands of my son Omni, that they may be kept according to the acommandments of my fathers.
The Prophet Joseph Smith’s own words about the coming forth of the Book of Mormon are:“On the evening of the … twenty-first of September [] … I betook myself to prayer and supplication to Almighty God.
…“While I was thus in the act of calling upon God, I discovered a light appearing in my room, which continued to increase until the room was lighter than at noonday, when immediately a personage appeared at my bedside, standing in the air, for his feet did not touch the floor.“He had on a loose robe of most exquisite whiteness.
It was a whiteness beyond anything earthly I had ever seen; nor do I believe that any earthly thing could be made to appear so exceedingly white and brilliant.
His hands were naked, and his arms also, a little above the wrist; so, also, were his feet naked, as were his legs, a little above the ankles.
His head and neck were also bare.
I could discover that he had no other clothing on but this robe, as it was open, so that I could see into his bosom.“Not only was his robe exceedingly white, but his whole person was glorious beyond description, and his countenance truly like lightning.
The room was exceedingly light, but not so very bright as immediately around his person.
When I first looked upon him, I was afraid; but the fear soon left me.“He called me by name, and said unto me that he was a messenger sent from the presence of God to me, and that his name was Moroni; that God had a work for me to do; and that my name should be had for good and evil among all nations, kindreds, and tongues, or that it should be both good and evil spoken of among all people.“He said there was a book deposited, written upon gold plates, giving an account of the former inhabitants of this continent, and the source from whence they sprang.
He also said that the fulness of the everlasting Gospel was contained in it, as delivered by the Savior to the ancient inhabitants;“Also, that there were two stones in silver bows—and these stones, fastened to a breastplate, constituted what is called the Urim and Thummim—deposited with the plates; and the possession and use of these stones were what constituted ‘seers’ in ancient or former times; and that God had prepared them for the purpose of translating the book.
…“Again, he told me, that when I got those plates of which he had spoken—for the time that they should be obtained was not yet fulfilled—I should not show them to any person; neither the breastplate with the Urim and Thummim; only to those to whom I should be commanded to show them; if I did I should be destroyed.
While he was conversing with me about the plates, the vision was opened to my mind that I could see the place where the plates were deposited, and that so clearly and distinctly that I knew the place again when I visited it.“After this communication, I saw the light in the room begin to gather immediately around the person of him who had been speaking to me, and it continued to do so until the room was again left dark, except just around him; when, instantly I saw, as it were, a conduit open right up into heaven, and he ascended till he entirely disappeared, and the room was left as it had been before this heavenly light had made its appearance.“I lay musing on the singularity of the scene, and marveling greatly at what had been told to me by this extraordinary messenger; when, in the midst of my meditation, I suddenly discovered that my room was again beginning to get lighted, and in an instant, as it were, the same heavenly messenger was again by my bedside.“He commenced, and again related the very same things which he had done at his first visit, without the least variation; which having done, he informed me of great judgments which were coming upon the earth, with great desolations by famine, sword, and pestilence; and that these grievous judgments would come on the earth in this generation.
Having related these things, he again ascended as he had done before.“By this time, so deep were the impressions made on my mind, that sleep had fled from my eyes, and I lay overwhelmed in astonishment at what I had both seen and heard.
But what was my surprise when again I beheld the same messenger at my bedside, and heard him rehearse or repeat over again to me the same things as before; and added a caution to me, telling me that Satan would try to tempt me (in consequence of the indigent circumstances of my father’s family), to get the plates for the purpose of getting rich.
This he forbade me, saying that I must have no other object in view in getting the plates but to glorify God, and must not be influenced by any other motive than that of building his kingdom; otherwise I could not get them.“After this third visit, he again ascended into heaven as before, and I was again left to ponder on the strangeness of what I had just experienced; when almost immediately after the heavenly messenger had ascended from me for the third time, the cock crowed, and I found that day was approaching, so that our interviews must have occupied the whole of that night.“I shortly after arose from my bed, and, as usual, went to the necessary labors of the day; but, in attempting to work as at other times, I found my strength so exhausted as to render me entirely unable.
My father, who was laboring along with me, discovered something to be wrong with me, and told me to go home.
I started with the intention of going to the house; but, in attempting to cross the fence out of the field where we were, my strength entirely failed me, and I fell helpless on the ground, and for a time was quite unconscious of anything.“The first thing that I can recollect was a voice speaking unto me, calling me by name.
I looked up, and beheld the same messenger standing over my head, surrounded by light as before.
He then again related unto me all that he had related to me the previous night, and commanded me to go to my father and tell him of the vision and commandments which I had received.“I obeyed; I returned to my father in the field, and rehearsed the whole matter to him.
He replied to me that it was of God, and told me to go and do as commanded by the messenger.
I left the field, and went to the place where the messenger had told me the plates were deposited; and owing to the distinctness of the vision which I had had concerning it, I knew the place the instant that I arrived there.“Convenient to the village of Manchester, Ontario county, New York, stands a hill of considerable size, and the most elevated of any in the neighborhood.
On the west side of this hill, not far from the top, under a stone of considerable size, lay the plates, deposited in a stone box.
This stone was thick and rounding in the middle on the upper side, and thinner towards the edges, so that the middle part of it was visible above the ground, but the edge all around was covered with earth.“Having removed the earth, I obtained a lever, which I got fixed under the edge of the stone, and with a little exertion raised it up.
I looked in, and there indeed did I behold the plates, the Urim and Thummim, and the breastplate, as stated by the messenger.
The box in which they lay was formed by laying stones together in some kind of cement.
In the bottom of the box were laid two stones crossways of the box, and on these stones lay the plates and the other things with them.“I made an attempt to take them out, but was forbidden by the messenger, and was again informed that the time for bringing them forth had not yet arrived, neither would it, until four years from that time; but he told me that I should come to that place precisely in one year from that time, and that he would there meet with me, and that I should continue to do so until the time should come for obtaining the plates.“Accordingly, as I had been commanded, I went at the end of each year, and at each time I found the same messenger there, and received instruction and intelligence from him at each of our interviews, respecting what the Lord was going to do, and how and in what manner his kingdom was to be conducted in the last days.
…“At length the time arrived for obtaining the plates, the Urim and Thummim, and the breastplate.
On the twenty-second day of September, one thousand eight hundred and twenty-seven, having gone as usual at the end of another year to the place where they were deposited, the same heavenly messenger delivered them up to me with this charge: that I should be responsible for them; that if I should let them go carelessly, or through any neglect of mine, I should be cut off; but that if I would use all my endeavors to preserve them, until he, the messenger, should call for them, they should be protected.“I soon found out the reason why I had received such strict charges to keep them safe, and why it was that the messenger had said that when I had done what was required at my hand, he would call for them.
For no sooner was it known that I had them, than the most strenuous exertions were used to get them from me.
Every stratagem that could be invented was resorted to for that purpose.
The persecution became more bitter and severe than before, and multitudes were on the alert continually to get them from me if possible.
But by the wisdom of God, they remained safe in my hands, until I had accomplished by them what was required at my hand.
When, according to arrangements, the messenger called for them, I delivered them up to him; and he has them in his charge until this day, being the second day of May, one thousand eight hundred and thirty-eight.”For a more complete account, see Joseph Smith—History in the Pearl of Great Price.The ancient record thus brought forth from the earth as the voice of a people speaking from the dust, and translated into modern speech by the gift and power of God as attested by Divine affirmation, was first published to the world in the year  as The Book of Mormon.
 And now I, Mormon, make a arecord of the things which I have both seen and heard, and call it the bBook of Mormon.
And about the time that aAmmaron hid up the records unto the Lord, he came unto me, (I being about ten years of age, and I began to be blearned somewhat after the manner of the learning of my people) and Ammaron said unto me: I perceive that thou art a csober child, and art quick to observe; Therefore, when ye are about twenty and four years old I would that ye should remember the things that ye have observed concerning this people; and when ye are of that age go to the aland Antum, unto a hill which shall be called bShim; and there have I deposited unto the Lord all the sacred engravings concerning this people.
And behold, ye shall take the aplates of Nephi unto yourself, and the remainder shall ye leave in the place where they are; and ye shall engrave on the plates of Nephi all the things that ye have observed concerning this people.
And I, Mormon, being a descendant of aNephi, (and my father’s name was Mormon) I remembered the things which Ammaron commanded me.
And it came to pass that I, being eleven years old, was carried by my father into the land southward, even to the land of Zarahemla.
The whole face of the land had become covered with buildings, and the people were as numerous almost, as it were the sand of the sea.
And it came to pass in this year there began to be a war between the aNephites, who consisted of the Nephites and the Jacobites and the Josephites and the Zoramites; and this war was between the Nephites, and the Lamanites and the Lemuelites and the Ishmaelites.
Now the aLamanites and the Lemuelites and the Ishmaelites were called Lamanites, and the two parties were Nephites and Lamanites.
And it came to pass that the war began to be among them in the borders of Zarahemla, by the waters of Sidon.
And it came to pass that the Nephites had gathered together a great number of men, even to exceed the number of thirty thousand.
And it came to pass that they did have in this same year a number of abattles, in which the Nephites did beat the Lamanites and did slay many of them.
And it came to pass that the Lamanites withdrew their design, and there was peace settled in the land; and peace did remain for the space of about four years, that there was no bloodshed.
But wickedness did prevail upon the face of the whole land, insomuch that the Lord did take away his abeloved disciples, and the work of miracles and of healing did cease because of the iniquity of the people.
And there were no agifts from the Lord, and the bHoly Ghost did not come upon any, because of their wickedness and cunbelief.
And I, being afifteen years of age and being somewhat of a bsober mind, therefore I was cvisited of the Lord, and dtasted and knew of the goodness of Jesus.
And I did endeavor to preach unto this people, but my mouth was shut, and I was forbidden that I should preach unto them; for behold they had awilfully rebelled against their God; and the beloved disciples were btaken away out of the land, because of their iniquity.
But I did remain among them, but I was forbidden to apreach unto them, because of the hardness of their hearts; and because of the hardness of their hearts the land was bcursed for their sake.
And these Gadianton robbers, who were among the Lamanites, did infest the land, insomuch that the inhabitants thereof began to ahide up their btreasures in the earth; and they became slippery, because the Lord had cursed the land, that they could not hold them, nor retain them again.
And it came to pass that there were asorceries, and witchcrafts, and magics; and the power of the evil one was wrought upon all the face of the land, even unto the fulfilling of all the words of Abinadi, and also bSamuel the Lamanite.
 And it came to pass in that same year there began to be a war again between the Nephites and the Lamanites.
And notwithstanding I being ayoung, was large in stature; therefore the people of Nephi appointed me that I should be their leader, or the leader of their armies.
Therefore it came to pass that in my sixteenth year I did go forth at the head of an army of the Nephites, against the Lamanites; therefore three hundred and twenty and six years had passed away.
And it came to pass that in the three hundred and twenty and seventh year the Lamanites did come upon us with aexceedingly great power, insomuch that they did frighten my armies; therefore they would not fight, and they began to retreat towards the bnorth countries.
And it came to pass that we did come to the city of Angola, and we did take possession of the city, and make preparations to defend ourselves against the Lamanites.
And it came to pass that we did afortify the city with our might; but notwithstanding all our fortifications the Lamanites did come upon us and did drive us out of the city.
And they did also drive us forth out of the land of David.
And we marched forth and came to the land of Joshua, which was in the borders west by the seashore.
And it came to pass that we did gather in our people as fast as it were possible, that we might get them together in aone body.
But behold, the land was afilled with brobbers and with Lamanites; and notwithstanding the great destruction which hung over my people, they did not repent of their evil doings; therefore there was blood and carnage spread throughout all the face of the land, both on the part of the Nephites and also on the part of the Lamanites; and it was one complete revolution throughout all the face of the land.
And now, the Lamanites had a king, and his name was aAaron; and he came against us with an army of forty and four thousand.
And behold, I withstood him with forty and two thousand.
And it came to pass that I beat him with my army that he fled before me.
And behold, all this was done, and three hundred and thirty years had passed away.
And it came to pass that the Nephites began to repent of their iniquity, and began to cry even as had been prophesied by Samuel the prophet; for behold no man could akeep that which was his own, for the thieves, and the robbers, and the murderers, and the magic art, and the witchcraft which was in the land.
Thus there began to be a amourning and a lamentation in all the land because of these things, and more especially among the people of Nephi.
And it came to pass that when I, Mormon, saw their lamentation and their amourning and their sorrow before the Lord, my heart did begin to rejoice within me, knowing the mercies and the long-suffering of the Lord, therefore supposing that he would be merciful unto them that they would bagain become a righteous people.
But behold this my joy was vain, for their asorrowing was not unto repentance, because of the goodness of God; but it was rather the bsorrowing of the cdamned, because the Lord would not always suffer them to take dhappiness in sin.
And they did not come unto Jesus with broken ahearts and contrite spirits, but they did bcurse God, and wish to die.
Nevertheless they would struggle with the sword for their lives.
And it came to pass that my sorrow did return unto me again, and I saw that the aday of bgrace cwas passed with them, both temporally and spiritually; for I saw thousands of them hewn down in open drebellion against their God, and heaped up as edung upon the face of the land.
And thus three hundred and forty and four years had passed away.
And it came to pass that in the three hundred and forty and fifth year the Nephites did begin to flee before the Lamanites; and they were pursued until they came even to the land of Jashon, before it was possible to stop them in their retreat.
And now, the city of Jashon was near the aland where Ammaron had bdeposited the records unto the Lord, that they might not be destroyed.
And behold I had gone according to the word of Ammaron, and taken the cplates of Nephi, and did make a record according to the words of Ammaron.
And upon the plates of Nephi I did make a full account of all the wickedness and abominations; but upon athese plates I did forbear to make a full account of their wickedness and abominations, for behold, a continual scene of wickedness and abominations has been before mine eyes ever since I have been sufficient to behold the ways of man.
And wo is me because of their wickedness; for my heart has been filled with sorrow because of their wickedness, all my days; nevertheless, I know that I shall be alifted up at the last day.
And it came to pass that in this year the people of Nephi again were hunted and driven.
And it came to pass that we were driven forth until we had come northward to the land which was called Shem.
And it came to pass that we did afortify the city of Shem, and we did gather in our people as much as it were possible, that perhaps we might save them from destruction.
And it came to pass in the three hundred and forty and sixth year they began to come upon us again.
And it came to pass that I did speak unto my people, and did urge them with great energy, that they would stand boldly before the Lamanites and afight for their bwives, and their children, and their houses, and their homes.
And my words did arouse them somewhat to vigor, insomuch that they did not flee from before the Lamanites, but did stand with boldness against them.
And it came to pass that we did contend with an army of thirty thousand against an army of fifty thousand.
And it came to pass that we did stand before them with such firmness that they did flee from before us.
And it came to pass that when they had fled we did pursue them with our armies, and did meet them again, and did abeat them; nevertheless the bstrength of the Lord was not with us; yea, we were left to ourselves, that the Spirit of the Lord did not abide in us; therefore we had become weak like unto our brethren.
And my heart did sorrow because of this the great calamity of my people, because of their wickedness and their abominations.
But behold, we did go forth against the Lamanites and the robbers of Gadianton, until we had again taken possession of the lands of our inheritance.
And the three hundred and forty and ninth year had passed away.
And in the three hundred and fiftieth year we made a treaty with the Lamanites and the robbers of Gadianton, in which we did get the lands of our inheritance divided.
And the Lamanites did give unto us the land anorthward, yea, even to the bnarrow passage which led into the land southward.
And we did give unto the Lamanites all the land southward.
 And it came to pass that the Lamanites did not come to battle again until ten years more had passed away.
And behold, I had employed my people, the Nephites, in preparing their lands and their arms against the time of battle.
And it came to pass that the Lord did say unto me: Cry unto this people—Repent ye, and come unto me, and be ye baptized, and build up again my church, and ye shall be aspared.
And I did cry unto this people, but it was ain vain; and they did bnot realize that it was the Lord that had spared them, and granted unto them a chance for repentance.
And behold they did harden their hearts against the Lord their God.
And it came to pass that after this tenth year had passed away, making, in the whole, three hundred and sixty years from the coming of Christ, the king of the Lamanites sent an epistle unto me, which gave unto me to know that they were preparing to come again to battle against us.
And it came to pass that I did cause my people that they should gather themselves together at the land aDesolation, to a city which was in the borders, by the narrow pass which led into the land bsouthward.
And there we did place our armies, that we might stop the armies of the Lamanites, that they might not get possession of any of our lands; therefore we did fortify against them with all our force.
And it came to pass that in the three hundred and sixty and first year the Lamanites did come down to the acity of Desolation to battle against us; and it came to pass that in that year we did beat them, insomuch that they did return to their own lands again.
And in the three hundred and sixty and second year they did come down aagain to battle.
And we did beat them again, and did slay a great number of them, and their dead were cast into the sea.
And now, because of this great thing which my people, the Nephites, had done, they began to aboast in their own strength, and began to swear before the heavens that they would avenge themselves of the blood of their brethren who had been slain by their enemies.
And they did aswear by the heavens, and also by the throne of God, that they bwould go up to battle against their enemies, and would cut them off from the face of the land.
And it came to pass that I, Mormon, did utterly arefuse from this time forth to be a commander and a leader of this people, because of their wickedness and abomination.
Behold, I had led them, notwithstanding their wickedness I had led them many times to battle, and had loved them, according to the alove of God which was in me, with all my heart; and my soul had been poured out in prayer unto my God all the day long for them; nevertheless, it was bwithout faith, because of the chardness of their hearts.
And athrice have I delivered them out of the hands of their enemies, and they have repented not of their sins.
And when they had sworn by all that had been aforbidden them by our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, that they would go up unto their enemies to battle, and avenge themselves of the blood of their brethren, behold the voice of the Lord came unto me, saying: aVengeance is mine, and I will brepay; and because this people repented not after I had delivered them, behold, they shall be cut off from the face of the earth.
And it came to pass that I utterly refused to go up against mine enemies; and I did even as the Lord had commanded me; and I did stand as an idle witness to manifest unto the world the things which I saw and heard, according to the manifestations of the Spirit which had testified of things to come.
Therefore I write aunto you, Gentiles, and also unto you, house of Israel, when the work shall commence, that ye shall be about to prepare to return to the land of your inheritance; Yea, behold, I write unto all the ends of the earth; yea, unto you, twelve tribes of Israel, who shall be ajudged according to your works by the twelve whom Jesus chose to be his disciples in the land of Jerusalem.
And I write also unto the remnant of this people, who shall also be judged by the atwelve whom Jesus chose in this land; and they shall be judged by the other twelve whom Jesus chose in the land of Jerusalem.
And these things doth the Spirit manifest unto me; therefore I write unto you all.
And for this cause I write unto you, that ye may know that ye must all stand before the ajudgment-seat of Christ, yea, every soul who belongs to the whole human bfamily of Adam; and ye must stand to be judged of your works, whether they be good or evil; And also that ye may abelieve the gospel of Jesus Christ, which ye shall bhave among you; and also that the cJews, the covenant people of the Lord, shall have other dwitness besides him whom they saw and heard, that Jesus, whom they slew, was the every Christ and the very God.
And I would that I could persuade aall ye ends of the earth to repent and prepare to stand before the judgment-seat of Christ.
 And now it came to pass that in the three hundred and sixty and third year the Nephites did go up with their armies to abattle against the Lamanites, out of the land Desolation.
And it came to pass that the armies of the Nephites were driven back again to the land of Desolation.
And while they were yet weary, a fresh army of the Lamanites did come upon them; and they had a sore battle, insomuch that the Lamanites did take possession of the acity Desolation, and did slay many of the Nephites, and did take many prisoners.
And the remainder did flee and join the inhabitants of the city Teancum.
Now the city Teancum lay in the borders by the seashore; and it was also near the city aDesolation.
And it was abecause the armies of the Nephites went up unto the Lamanites that they began to be smitten; for were it not for that, the Lamanites could have had no power over them.
But, behold, the judgments of God will overtake the awicked; and it is by the wicked that the wicked are bpunished; for it is the wicked that stir up the hearts of the children of men unto bloodshed.
And it came to pass that the Lamanites did make preparations to come against the city Teancum.
And it came to pass in the three hundred and sixty and fourth year the Lamanites did come against the city Teancum, that they might take possession of the city Teancum also.
And it came to pass that they were repulsed and driven back by the Nephites.
And when the Nephites saw that they had driven the Lamanites they did again aboast of their own strength; and they went forth in their own might, and took possession again of the city Desolation.
And now all these things had been done, and there had been thousands slain on both sides, both the Nephites and the Lamanites.
And it came to pass that the three hundred and sixty and sixth year had passed away, and the Lamanites came again upon the Nephites to battle; and yet the Nephites repented not of the evil they had done, but persisted in their wickedness continually.
And it is impossible for the tongue to describe, or for man to write a perfect description of the horrible scene of the blood and carnage which was among the people, both of the Nephites and of the Lamanites; and every heart was hardened, so that they adelighted in the shedding of blood continually.
And there never had been so great awickedness among all the children of Lehi, nor even among all the house of Israel, according to the words of the Lord, as was among this people.
And it came to pass that the Lamanites did take possession of the city Desolation, and this because their anumber did exceed the number of the Nephites.
And they did also march forward against the city Teancum, and did drive the inhabitants forth out of her, and did take many prisoners both women and children, and did offer them up as asacrifices unto their idol gods.
And it came to pass that in the three hundred and sixty and seventh year, the Nephites being angry because the Lamanites had sacrificed their women and their children, that they did go against the Lamanites with exceedingly great anger, insomuch that they did beat again the Lamanites, and drive them out of their lands.
And the Lamanites did not come again against the Nephites until the three hundred and seventy and fifth year.
And in this year they did come down against the Nephites with all their powers; and they were not numbered because of the greatness of their number.
And afrom this time forth did the Nephites gain no power over the Lamanites, but began to be swept off by them even as a dew before the sun.
And it came to pass that the Lamanites did come down against the acity Desolation; and there was an exceedingly sore battle fought in the land Desolation, in the which they did beat the Nephites.
And they fled again from before them, and they came to the city Boaz; and there they did stand against the Lamanites with exceeding boldness, insomuch that the Lamanites did not beat them until they had come again the second time.
And when they had come the second time, the Nephites were driven and slaughtered with an exceedingly great slaughter; their women and their achildren were again sacrificed unto idols.
And it came to pass that the Nephites did again flee from before them, taking all the inhabitants with them, both in towns and villages.
And now I, Mormon, seeing that the Lamanites were about to overthrow the land, therefore I did go to the hill aShim, and did take up all the brecords which Ammaron had hid up unto the Lord.
 And it came to pass that I did go forth among the Nephites, and did repent of the aoath which I had made that I would no more assist them; and they gave me command again of their armies, for they looked upon me as though I could deliver them from their afflictions.
But behold, I was awithout hope, for I knew the judgments of the Lord which should come upon them; for they repented not of their iniquities, but did struggle for their lives without calling upon that Being who created them.
And it came to pass that the Lamanites did come against us as we had fled to the city of Jordan; but behold, they were driven back that they did not take the city at that time.
And it came to pass that they came against us again, and we did maintain the city.
And there were also other cities which were maintained by the Nephites, which strongholds did cut them off that they could not get into the country which lay before us, to destroy the inhabitants of our land.
But it came to pass that whatsoever lands we had passed by, and the inhabitants thereof were not gathered in, were destroyed by the Lamanites, and their towns, and villages, and cities were burned with fire; and thus three hundred and seventy and nine years passed away.
And it came to pass that in the three hundred and eightieth year the Lamanites did come again against us to battle, and we did stand against them boldly; but it was all in vain, for so agreat were their numbers that they did tread the people of the Nephites under their feet.
And it came to pass that we did again take to flight, and those whose flight was swifter than the Lamanites’ did escape, and those whose flight did not exceed the Lamanites’ were swept down and destroyed.
And now behold, I, Mormon, do not desire to harrow up the souls of men in casting before them such an awful scene of blood and carnage as was laid before mine eyes; but I, knowing that these things must surely be made known, and that all things which are hid must be arevealed upon the house-tops— And also that a knowledge of these things must acome unto the remnant of these people, and also unto the Gentiles, who the Lord hath said should bscatter this people, and this people should be counted as naught among them—therefore cI write a dsmall abridgment, daring not to give a full account of the things which I have seen, because of the commandment which I have received, and also that ye might not have too great sorrow because of the wickedness of this people.
And now behold, this I speak unto their seed, and also to the Gentiles who have care for the house of Israel, that realize and know from whence their blessings come.
For I know that such will sorrow for the calamity of the house of Israel; yea, they will sorrow for the destruction of this people; they will sorrow that this people had not repented that they might have been clasped in the arms of Jesus.
Now athese things are bwritten unto the cremnant of the house of Jacob; and they are written after this manner, because it is known of God that wickedness will not bring them forth unto them; and they are to be dhid up unto the Lord that they may come forth in his own due time.
And this is the commandment which I have received; and behold, they ashall come forth according to the commandment of the Lord, when he shall see fit, in his wisdom.
And behold, they shall go unto the aunbelieving of the bJews; and for this intent shall they go—that they may be cpersuaded that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God; that the Father may bring about, through his most Beloved, his great and eternal purpose, in restoring the Jews, or all the house of Israel, to the dland of their inheritance, which the Lord their God hath given them, unto the fulfilling of his ecovenant; And also that the seed of athis people may more fully believe his gospel, which shall bgo forth unto them from the Gentiles; for this people shall be cscattered, and shall dbecome a dark, a filthy, and a loathsome people, beyond the description of that which ever hath been amongst us, yea, even that which hath been among the Lamanites, and this because of their unbelief and idolatry.
For behold, the Spirit of the Lord hath already ceased to astrive with their fathers; and they are without Christ and God in the world; and they are driven about as bchaff before the wind.
They were once a delightsome people, and they had Christ for their ashepherd; yea, they were led even by God the Father.
But now, behold, they are aled about by Satan, even as chaff is driven before the wind, or as a vessel is tossed about upon the waves, without sail or anchor, or without anything wherewith to steer her; and even as she is, so are they.
And behold, the Lord hath reserved their blessings, which they might have received in the land, for the aGentiles who shall possess the land.
But behold, it shall come to pass that they shall be driven and scattered by the Gentiles; and after they have been driven and scattered by the Gentiles, behold, then will the Lord aremember the bcovenant which he made unto Abraham and unto all the house of Israel.
And also the Lord will remember the aprayers of the righteous, which have been put up unto him for them.
And then, O ye Gentiles, how can ye stand before the power of God, except ye shall repent and turn from your evil ways?
Know ye not that ye are in the ahands of God?
Know ye not that he hath all power, and at his great command the bearth shall be crolled together as a scroll?
Therefore, repent ye, and humble yourselves before him, lest he shall come out in justice against you—lest a aremnant of the seed of Jacob shall go forth among you as a blion, and tear you in pieces, and there is none to deliver.
 And now I finish my record concerning the adestruction of my people, the Nephites.
And it came to pass that we did march forth before the Lamanites.
And I, Mormon, wrote an epistle unto the king of the Lamanites, and desired of him that he would grant unto us that we might gather together our people unto the aland of bCumorah, by a hill which was called Cumorah, and there we could give them battle.
And it came to pass that the king of the Lamanites did grant unto me the thing which I desired.
And it came to pass that we did march forth to the land of Cumorah, and we did pitch our tents around about the hill Cumorah; and it was in a land of amany waters, rivers, and fountains; and here we had hope to gain advantage over the Lamanites.
And when athree hundred and eighty and four years had passed away, we had gathered in all the remainder of our people unto the land of Cumorah.
And it came to pass that when we had gathered in all our people in one to the land of Cumorah, behold I, Mormon, began to be old; and knowing it to be the last struggle of my people, and having been commanded of the Lord that I should not suffer the records which had been handed down by our fathers, which were asacred, to fall into the hands of the Lamanites, (for the Lamanites would bdestroy them) therefore I made cthis record out of the plates of Nephi, and dhid up in the hill Cumorah all the records which had been entrusted to me by the hand of the Lord, save it were ethese few plates which I gave unto my son fMoroni.
And it came to pass that my people, with their wives and their children, did now behold the aarmies of the Lamanites marching towards them; and with that awful bfear of death which fills the breasts of all the wicked, did they await to receive them.
And it came to pass that they came to battle against us, and every soul was filled with terror because of the greatness of their numbers.
And it came to pass that they did fall upon my people with the sword, and with the bow, and with the arrow, and with the ax, and with all manner of weapons of war.
And it came to pass that my men were hewn down, yea, even my aten thousand who were with me, and I fell wounded in the midst; and they passed by me that they did not put an end to my life.
And when they had gone through and hewn down aall my people save it were twenty and four of us, (among whom was my son Moroni) and we having survived the dead of our people, did behold on the morrow, when the Lamanites had returned unto their camps, from the top of the hill Cumorah, the ten thousand of my people who were hewn down, being led in the front by me.
And we also beheld the ten thousand of my people who were led by my son Moroni.
And behold, the ten thousand of Gidgiddonah had fallen, and he also in the midst.
And Lamah had fallen with his ten thousand; and Gilgal had fallen with his ten thousand; and Limhah had fallen with his ten thousand; and Jeneum had fallen with his ten thousand; and Cumenihah, and Moronihah, and Antionum, and Shiblom, and Shem, and Josh, had fallen with their ten thousand each.
And it came to pass that there were ten more who did fall by the sword, with their ten thousand each; yea, even aall my people, save it were those twenty and four who were with me, and also a bfew who had escaped into the south countries, and a few who had deserted over unto the Lamanites, had fallen; and their flesh, and bones, and blood lay upon the face of the earth, being left by the hands of those who slew them to molder upon the land, and to crumble and to return to their mother earth.
And my soul was rent with aanguish, because of the slain of my people, and I cried: aO ye fair ones, how could ye have departed from the ways of the Lord!
O ye fair ones, how could ye have rejected that Jesus, who stood with open arms to receive you!
Behold, if ye had not done this, ye would not have fallen.
But behold, ye are fallen, and I amourn your loss.
O ye afair sons and daughters, ye fathers and mothers, ye husbands and wives, ye fair ones, how is it that ye could have bfallen!
But behold, ye are gone, and my sorrows cannot bring your return.
And the day soon cometh that your mortal must put on immortality, and these bodies which are now moldering in corruption must soon become aincorruptible bodies; and then ye must stand before the judgment-seat of Christ, to be judged according to your works; and if it so be that ye are righteous, then are ye blessed with your fathers who have gone before you.
O that ye had repented before this great adestruction had come upon you.
But behold, ye are gone, and the Father, yea, the Eternal Father of heaven, bknoweth your state; and he doeth with you according to his cjustice and dmercy.
 And now, behold, I would speak somewhat unto the aremnant of this people who are spared, if it so be that God may give unto them my words, that they may know of the things of their fathers; yea, I speak unto you, ye remnant of the house of Israel; and these are the words which I speak: Know ye that ye are of the ahouse of Israel.
Know ye that ye must come unto repentance, or ye cannot be saved.
Know ye that ye must lay down your weapons of war, and delight no more in the shedding of blood, and take them not again, save it be that God shall acommand you.
Know ye that ye must come to the aknowledge of your fathers, and repent of all your sins and iniquities, and bbelieve in Jesus Christ, that he is the Son of God, and that he was slain by the Jews, and by the power of the Father he hath risen again, whereby he hath gained the cvictory over the grave; and also in him is the sting of death swallowed up.
And he bringeth to pass the aresurrection of the dead, whereby man must be raised to stand before his bjudgment-seat.
And he hath brought to pass the aredemption of the bworld, whereby he that is found cguiltless before him at the judgment day hath it given unto him to ddwell in the presence of God in his kingdom, to sing ceaseless praises with the echoirs above, unto the Father, and unto the Son, and unto the Holy Ghost, which are fone God, in a state of ghappiness which hath no end.
Therefore repent, and be baptized in the name of Jesus, and lay hold upon the agospel of Christ, which shall be set before you, not only in this record but also in the record which shall come unto the Gentiles bfrom the Jews, which record shall come from the Gentiles cunto you.
For behold, athis is bwritten for the intent that ye may cbelieve that; and if dye believe that ye will believe this also; and if ye believe this ye will know concerning your fathers, and also the marvelous works which were wrought by the power of God among them.
And ye will also know that ye are a aremnant of the seed of Jacob; therefore ye are numbered among the people of the first covenant; and if it so be that ye believe in Christ, and are baptized, first bwith water, then with fire and with the Holy Ghost, following the cexample of our Savior, according to that which he hath commanded us, it shall be well with you in the day of judgment.
Amen.
 Behold I, aMoroni, do finish the brecord of my father, Mormon.
Behold, I have but few things to write, which things I have been commanded by my father.
And now it came to pass that after the agreat and tremendous battle at Cumorah, behold, the Nephites who had escaped into the country southward were hunted by the bLamanites, until they were all destroyed.
And my father also was killed by them, and I even aremain balone to write the sad tale of the destruction of my people.
But behold, they are gone, and I fulfil the commandment of my father.
And whether they will slay me, I know not.
Therefore I will write and ahide up the records in the earth; and whither I go it mattereth not.
Behold, my father hath made athis record, and he hath written the intent thereof.
And behold, I would write it also if I had room upon the bplates, but I have not; and ore I have none, for I am alone.
My father hath been slain in battle, and all my kinsfolk, and I have not friends nor whither to go; and chow long the Lord will suffer that I may live I know not.
Behold, afour hundred years have passed away since the coming of our Lord and Savior.
And behold, the Lamanites have hunted my people, the Nephites, down from city to city and from place to place, even until they are no more; and great has been their afall; yea, great and marvelous is the destruction of my people, the Nephites.
And behold, it is the hand of the Lord which hath done it.
And behold also, the Lamanites are at awar one with another; and the whole face of this land is one continual round of murder and bloodshed; and no one knoweth the end of the war.
And now, behold, I say no more concerning them, for there are none save it be the Lamanites and arobbers that do exist upon the face of the land.
And there are none that do know the true God save it be the adisciples of Jesus, who did tarry in the land until the wickedness of the people was so great that the Lord would not suffer them to bremain with the people; and whether they be upon the face of the land no man knoweth.
But behold, my afather and I have seen bthem, and they have ministered unto us.
And whoso receiveth athis record, and shall not condemn it because of the imperfections which are in it, the same shall know of bgreater things than these.
Behold, I am Moroni; and were it possible, I would make all things known unto you.
Behold, I make an end of speaking concerning this people.
I am the son of Mormon, and my father was a adescendant of Nephi.
And I am the same who ahideth up this record unto the Lord; the plates thereof are of no worth, because of the commandment of the Lord.
For he truly saith that no one shall have them bto get gain; but the record thereof is of cgreat worth; and whoso shall bring it to light, him will the Lord bless.
For none can have power to bring it to light save it be given him of God; for God wills that it shall be done with an aeye single to his glory, or the welfare of the ancient and long dispersed covenant people of the Lord.
And blessed be ahe that shall bring this thing to light; for it shall be bbrought out of darkness unto light, according to the word of God; yea, it shall be brought out of the earth, and it shall shine forth out of darkness, and come unto the knowledge of the people; and it shall be done by the power of God.
And if there be afaults they be the faults of a man.
But behold, we know no fault; nevertheless God knoweth all things; therefore, he that bcondemneth, let him be aware lest he shall be in danger of hell fire.
And he that saith: Show unto me, or ye shall be asmitten—let him beware lest he commandeth that which is forbidden of the Lord.
For behold, the same that ajudgeth brashly shall be judged rashly again; for according to his works shall his wages be; therefore, he that smiteth shall be smitten again, of the Lord.
Behold what the scripture says—man shall not asmite, neither shall he bjudge; for judgment is mine, saith the Lord, and vengeance is mine also, and I will repay.
And he that shall breathe out awrath and bstrifes against the work of the Lord, and against the ccovenant people of the Lord who are the house of Israel, and shall say: We will destroy the work of the Lord, and the Lord will not remember his covenant which he hath made unto the house of Israel—the same is in danger to be hewn down and cast into the fire; For the eternal apurposes of the Lord shall roll on, until all his promises shall be fulfilled.
Search the prophecies of aIsaiah.
Behold, I cannot write them.
Yea, behold I say unto you, that those saints who have gone before me, who have possessed this land, shall bcry, yea, even from the dust will they cry unto the Lord; and as the Lord liveth he will remember the covenant which he hath made with them.
And he knoweth their aprayers, that they were in behalf of their brethren.
And he knoweth their faith, for in his name could they remove bmountains; and in his name could they cause the earth to shake; and by the power of his word did they cause cprisons to tumble to the earth; yea, even the fiery furnace could not harm them, neither wild beasts nor poisonous serpents, because of the power of his word.
And behold, their aprayers were also in behalf of him that the Lord should suffer to bring these things forth.
And no one need say they shall not come, for they surely shall, for the Lord hath spoken it; for aout of the earth shall they come, by the hand of the Lord, and none can stay it; and it shall come in a day when it shall be said that bmiracles are done away; and it shall come even as if one should speak cfrom the dead.
And it shall come in a day when the ablood of saints shall cry unto the Lord, because of secret bcombinations and the works of darkness.
Yea, it shall come in a day when the power of God shall be adenied, and bchurches become defiled and be clifted up in the pride of their hearts; yea, even in a day when leaders of churches and teachers shall rise in the pride of their hearts, even to the envying of them who belong to their churches.
Yea, it shall come in a day when athere shall be heard of fires, and tempests, and bvapors of smoke in foreign lands; And there shall also be heard of awars, rumors of wars, and earthquakes in divers places.
Yea, it shall come in a day when there shall be great apollutions upon the face of the earth; there shall be bmurders, and robbing, and lying, and deceivings, and whoredoms, and all manner of abominations; when there shall be many who will say, Do this, or do that, and it cmattereth not, for the Lord will duphold such at the last day.
But wo unto such, for they are in the egall of bitterness and in the fbonds of iniquity.
Yea, it shall come in a day when there shall be achurches built up that shall say: Come unto me, and for your money you shall be forgiven of your sins.
O ye wicked and perverse and astiffnecked people, why have ye built up churches unto yourselves to get bgain?
Why have ye ctransfigured the holy word of God, that ye might bring ddamnation upon your souls?
Behold, look ye unto the erevelations of God; for behold, the time cometh at that day when all these things must be fulfilled.
Behold, the Lord hath shown unto me great and marvelous things concerning that which must shortly come, at that day when these things shall come forth among you.
Behold, I speak unto you as if ye were present, and yet ye are not.
But behold, Jesus Christ hath shown you unto me, and I know your doing.
And I know that ye do awalk in the pride of your hearts; and there are none save a few only who do not blift themselves up in the pride of their hearts, unto the wearing of cvery fine apparel, unto envying, and strifes, and malice, and persecutions, and all manner of iniquities; and your churches, yea, even every one, have become polluted because of the pride of your hearts.
For behold, ye do love amoney, and your substance, and your fine apparel, and the adorning of your churches, more than ye love the poor and the needy, the sick and the afflicted.
O ye pollutions, ye hypocrites, ye teachers, who sell yourselves for that which will canker, why have ye polluted the holy church of God?
Why are ye aashamed to take upon you the name of Christ?
Why do ye not think that greater is the value of an endless happiness than that bmisery which never dies—because of the cpraise of the world?
Why do ye adorn yourselves with that which hath no life, and yet suffer the hungry, and the needy, and the naked, and the sick and the afflicted to pass by you, and notice them not?
Yea, why do ye build up your asecret abominations to get gain, and cause that widows should mourn before the Lord, and also orphans to mourn before the Lord, and also the blood of their fathers and their husbands to cry unto the Lord from the ground, for vengeance upon your heads?
Behold, the sword of vengeance hangeth over you; and the time soon cometh that he avengeth the ablood of the saints upon you, for he will not suffer their cries any longer.
 And now, I speak also concerning those who do not believe in Christ.
Behold, will ye believe in the day of your visitation—behold, when the Lord shall come, yea, even that agreat day when the bearth shall be rolled together as a scroll, and the elements shall cmelt with fervent heat, yea, in that great day when ye shall be brought to stand before the Lamb of God—then will ye say that there is no God?
Then will ye longer deny the Christ, or can ye behold the Lamb of God?
Do ye suppose that ye shall dwell with him under a aconsciousness of your guilt?
Do ye suppose that ye could be happy to dwell with that holy Being, when your souls are racked with a consciousness of guilt that ye have ever abused his laws?
Behold, I say unto you that ye would be more miserable to dwell with a holy and just God, under a consciousness of your afilthiness before him, than ye would to dwell with the bdamned souls in chell.
For behold, when ye shall be brought to see your anakedness before God, and also the glory of God, and the bholiness of Jesus Christ, it will kindle a flame of unquenchable fire upon you.
O then ye aunbelieving, bturn ye unto the Lord; cry mightily unto the Father in the name of Jesus, that perhaps ye may be found spotless, cpure, fair, and white, having been cleansed by the blood of the dLamb, at that great and last day.
And again I speak unto you who adeny the revelations of God, and say that they are done away, that there are no revelations, nor prophecies, nor gifts, nor healing, nor speaking with tongues, and the binterpretation of tongues; Behold I say unto you, he that denieth these things knoweth not the agospel of Christ; yea, he has not read the scriptures; if so, he does not bunderstand them.
For do we not read that God is the asame byesterday, today, and forever, and in him there is no cvariableness neither shadow of changing?
And now, if ye have imagined up unto yourselves a god who doth vary, and in whom there is shadow of changing, then have ye imagined up unto yourselves a god who is not a God of miracles.
But behold, I will show unto you a God of amiracles, even the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob; and it is that same bGod who created the heavens and the earth, and all things that in them are.
Behold, he created Adam, and by aAdam came the bfall of man.
And because of the fall of man came Jesus Christ, even the Father and the Son; and because of Jesus Christ came the credemption of man.
And because of the redemption of man, which came by Jesus Christ, they are brought back into the apresence of the Lord; yea, this is wherein all men are redeemed, because the death of Christ bringeth to pass the bresurrection, which bringeth to pass a redemption from an endless csleep, from which sleep all men shall be awakened by the power of God when the trump shall sound; and they shall come forth, both small and great, and all shall stand before his bar, being redeemed and loosed from this eternal dband of death, which death is a temporal death.
And then cometh the ajudgment of the Holy One upon them; and then cometh the time that he that is bfilthy shall be filthy still; and he that is righteous shall be righteous still; he that is happy shall be happy still; and he that is unhappy shall be unhappy still.
And now, O all ye that have imagined up unto yourselves a god who can do ano miracles, I would ask of you, have all these things passed, of which I have spoken?
Has the end come yet?
Behold I say unto you, Nay; and God has not ceased to be a God of miracles.
Behold, are not the things that God hath wrought marvelous in our eyes?
Yea, and who can comprehend the marvelous aworks of God?
Who shall say that it was not a miracle that by his aword the heaven and the earth should be; and by the power of his word man was bcreated of the cdust of the earth; and by the power of his word have miracles been wrought?
And who shall say that Jesus Christ did not do many mighty amiracles?
And there were many bmighty miracles wrought by the hands of the apostles.
And if there were amiracles wrought then, why has God ceased to be a God of miracles and yet be an unchangeable Being?
And behold, I say unto you he bchangeth not; if so he would cease to be God; and he ceaseth not to be God, and is a God of miracles.
And the reason why he ceaseth to do amiracles among the children of men is because that they dwindle in unbelief, and depart from the right way, and know not the God in whom they should btrust.
Behold, I say unto you that whoso believeth in Christ, doubting nothing, awhatsoever he shall ask the Father in the name of Christ it shall be granted him; and this bpromise is unto all, even unto the ends of the earth.
For behold, thus said Jesus Christ, the Son of God, unto his disciples who should tarry, yea, and also to aall his disciples, in the hearing of the multitude: Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature; And he that abelieveth and is baptized shall be saved, but he that believeth not shall be bdamned; And athese signs shall follow them that believe—in my name shall they cast out bdevils; they shall speak with new tongues; they shall take up serpents; and if they drink any deadly thing it shall not hurt them; they shall lay chands on the sick and they shall recover; And whosoever shall believe in my name, doubting nothing, unto him will I aconfirm all my words, even unto the ends of the earth.
And now, behold, who can stand aagainst the works of the Lord?
bWho can deny his sayings?
Who will rise up against the almighty power of the Lord?
Who will despise the works of the Lord?
Who will despise the children of Christ?
Behold, all ye who are cdespisers of the works of the Lord, for ye shall wonder and perish.
O then despise not, and wonder not, but hearken unto the words of the Lord, and ask the Father in the name of Jesus for what things soever ye shall stand in need.
aDoubt not, but be believing, and begin as in times of old, and bcome unto the Lord with all your cheart, and dwork out your own salvation with fear and trembling before him.
Be awise in the days of your bprobation; strip yourselves of all uncleanness; ask not, that ye may consume it on your clusts, but ask with a firmness unshaken, that ye will yield to no temptation, but that ye will serve the true and dliving God.
See that ye are not baptized aunworthily; see that ye partake not of the sacrament of Christ bunworthily; but see that ye do all things in cworthiness, and do it in the name of Jesus Christ, the Son of the living God; and if ye do this, and endure to the end, ye will in nowise be cast out.
Behold, I speak unto you as though I aspake from the dead; for I know that ye shall have my words.
Condemn me not because of mine aimperfection, neither my father, because of his imperfection, neither them who have written before him; but rather give thanks unto God that he hath made manifest unto you our imperfections, that ye may learn to be more wise than we have been.
And now, behold, we have written this record according to our knowledge, in the characters which are called among us the areformed Egyptian, being handed down and altered by us, according to our manner of speech.
And if our plates had been asufficiently large we should have written in Hebrew; but the Hebrew hath been altered by us also; and if we could have written in Hebrew, behold, ye would have had no bimperfection in our record.
But the Lord knoweth the things which we have written, and also that none other people knoweth our language; and because that none other people knoweth our language, therefore he hath prepared ameans for the interpretation thereof.
And these things are written that we may rid our garments of the blood of our abrethren, who have dwindled in unbelief.
And behold, these things which we have adesired concerning our brethren, yea, even their restoration to the knowledge of Christ, are according to the prayers of all the saints who have dwelt in the land.
And may the Lord Jesus Christ grant that their prayers may be answered according to their faith; and may God the Father remember the covenant which he hath made with the house of Israel; and may he bless them forever, through faith on the name of Jesus Christ.
Amen.
 Now I, Moroni, after having made an end of abridging the account of the people of Jared, I had supposed anot to have written more, but I have not as yet perished; and I make not myself known to the Lamanites lest they should destroy me.
For behold, their awars are exceedingly fierce among themselves; and because of their bhatred they cput to death every Nephite that will not deny the Christ.
And I, Moroni, will not adeny the Christ; wherefore, I wander whithersoever I can for the safety of mine own life.
Wherefore, I write a few more things, contrary to that which I had supposed; for I had supposed not to have written any more; but I write a few more things, that perhaps they may be of aworth unto my brethren, the Lamanites, in some future day, according to the will of the Lord.
 Now I, Moroni, write somewhat as seemeth me good; and I write unto my brethren, the aLamanites; and I would that they should know that more than bfour hundred and twenty years have passed away since the sign was given of the coming of Christ.
And I aseal up bthese records, after I have spoken a few words by way of exhortation unto you.
Behold, I would exhort you that when ye shall read these things, if it be wisdom in God that ye should read them, that ye would remember how amerciful the Lord hath been unto the children of men, from the creation of Adam even down until the time that ye shall receive these things, and bponder it in your chearts.
And when ye shall receive these things, I would exhort you that ye would aask God, the Eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these things are not btrue; and if ye shall ask with a csincere heart, with dreal intent, having efaith in Christ, he will fmanifest the gtruth of it unto you, by the power of the Holy Ghost.
And by the power of the Holy Ghost ye may aknow the btruth of all things.
And whatsoever thing is good is just and true; wherefore, nothing that is good denieth the Christ, but acknowledgeth that he is.
And ye may aknow that he is, by the power of the Holy Ghost; wherefore I would exhort you that ye deny not the power of God; for he worketh by power, baccording to the faith of the children of men, the same today and tomorrow, and forever.
And again, I exhort you, my brethren, that ye deny not the agifts of God, for they are many; and they come from the same God.
And there are bdifferent ways that these gifts are administered; but it is the same God who worketh all in all; and they are given by the manifestations of the cSpirit of God unto men, to profit them.
aFor behold, to one is given by the Spirit of God, that he may bteach the word of wisdom; And to another, that he may ateach the word of bknowledge by the same Spirit; And to another, exceedingly great afaith; and to another, the gifts of bhealing by the same Spirit; And again, to another, that he may work mighty amiracles; And again, to another, that he may prophesy concerning all things; And again, to another, the beholding of angels and ministering spirits; And again, to another, all kinds of tongues; And again, to another, the interpretation of alanguages and of divers kinds of tongues.
And all these gifts come by the Spirit of Christ; and they come unto every man severally, according as he will.
And I would exhort you, my beloved brethren, that ye remember that aevery good bgift cometh of Christ.
And I would exhort you, my beloved brethren, that ye remember that he is the asame yesterday, today, and forever, and that all these gifts of which I have spoken, which are spiritual, never will be done away, even as long as the world shall stand, only according to the bunbelief of the children of men.
Wherefore, there must be afaith; and if there must be faith there must also be hope; and if there must be hope there must also be charity.
And except ye have acharity ye can in nowise be saved in the kingdom of God; neither can ye be saved in the kingdom of God if ye have not faith; neither can ye if ye have no hope.
And if ye have no hope ye must needs be in adespair; and despair cometh because of iniquity.
And Christ truly said unto our fathers: aIf ye have faith ye can do all things which are expedient unto me.
And now I speak unto all the ends of the earth—that if the day cometh that the power and gifts of God shall be done away among you, it shall be abecause of bunbelief.
And wo be unto the children of men if this be the case; for there shall be anone that doeth good among you, no not one.
For if there be one among you that doeth good, he shall work by the power and gifts of God.
And wo unto them who shall do these things away and die, for they adie in their bsins, and they cannot be saved in the kingdom of God; and I speak it according to the words of Christ; and I lie not.
And I exhort you to remember these things; for the time speedily cometh that ye shall know that I lie not, for ye shall see me at the bar of God; and the Lord God will say unto you: Did I not declare my awords unto you, which were written by this man, like as one bcrying from the dead, yea, even as one speaking out of the cdust?
I declare these things unto the fulfilling of the prophecies.
And behold, they shall proceed forth out of the mouth of the everlasting God; and his word shall ahiss forth from generation to generation.
And God shall show unto you, that that which I have written is atrue.
And again I would exhort you that ye would acome unto Christ, and lay hold upon every good bgift, and ctouch not the evil gift, nor the dunclean thing.
And aawake, and arise from the dust, O Jerusalem; yea, and put on thy beautiful garments, O daughter of bZion; and cstrengthen thy dstakes and enlarge thy borders forever, that thou mayest eno more be confounded, that the covenants of the Eternal Father which he hath made unto thee, O house of Israel, may be fulfilled.
Yea, acome unto Christ, and be bperfected in him, and cdeny yourselves of all ungodliness; and if ye shall deny yourselves of all ungodliness, and dlove God with all your might, mind and strength, then is his grace sufficient for you, that by his grace ye may be eperfect in Christ; and if by the grace of God ye are perfect in Christ, ye can in nowise deny the power of God.
And again, if ye by the grace of God are perfect in Christ, and deny not his power, then are ye asanctified in Christ by the grace of God, through the shedding of the bblood of Christ, which is in the covenant of the Father unto the remission of your csins, that ye become dholy, without spot.
And now I bid unto all, farewell.
I soon go to arest in the bparadise of God, until my cspirit and body shall again dreunite, and I am brought forth triumphant through the eair, to meet you before the fpleasing bar of the great gJehovah, the Eternal hJudge of both quick and dead.
Amen.The End
 The words of Christ, which he spake unto his adisciples, the twelve whom he had chosen, as he laid his hands upon them— And he called them by name, saying: Ye shall acall on the Father in my name, in mighty prayer; and after ye have done this ye shall have bpower that to him upon whom ye shall lay your chands, dye shall give the Holy Ghost; and in my name shall ye give it, for thus do mine apostles.
Now Christ spake these words unto them at the time of his first appearing; and the multitude heard it not, but the disciples heard it; and on as many as they alaid their hands, fell the Holy Ghost.
 The manner which the disciples, who were called the aelders of the church, bordained cpriests and teachers— After they had prayed unto the Father in the name of Christ, they alaid their hands upon them, and said: In the name of Jesus Christ I ordain you to be a priest (or if he be a ateacher, I ordain you to be a teacher) to preach repentance and bremission of sins through Jesus Christ, by the endurance of faith on his name to the end.
Amen.
And after this manner did they aordain priests and teachers, according to the bgifts and callings of God unto men; and they ordained them by the cpower of the Holy Ghost, which was in them.
 The amanner of their belders and priests administering the flesh and blood of Christ unto the church; and they administered it caccording to the commandments of Christ; wherefore we know the manner to be true; and the elder or priest did minister it— And they did kneel down with the achurch, and pray to the Father in the name of Christ, saying: O God, the Eternal Father, we ask thee in the name of thy Son, Jesus Christ, to bless and asanctify this bbread to the souls of all those who partake of it; that they may eat in cremembrance of the body of thy Son, and witness unto thee, O God, the Eternal Father, that they are willing to take upon them the dname of thy Son, and always remember him, and keep his commandments which he hath given them, that they may always have his eSpirit to be with them.
Amen.
 The amanner of administering the wine—Behold, they took the cup, and said: O God, the Eternal Father, we ask thee, in the name of thy Son, Jesus Christ, to bless and sanctify this awine to the souls of all those who drink of it, that they may do it in bremembrance of the cblood of thy Son, which was shed for them; that they may witness unto thee, O God, the Eternal Father, that they do always remember him, that they may have his dSpirit to be with them.
Amen.
 And now I speak concerning baptism.
Behold, elders, priests, and teachers were baptized; and they were not baptized save they brought forth afruit meet that they were bworthy of it.
Neither did they receive any unto baptism save they came forth with a abroken bheart and a contrite spirit, and witnessed unto the church that they truly repented of all their sins.
And none were received unto baptism save they atook upon them the name of Christ, having a determination to serve him to the end.
And after they had been received unto baptism, and were wrought upon and acleansed by the power of the Holy Ghost, they were numbered among the people of the bchurch of Christ; and their cnames were taken, that they might be remembered and nourished by the good word of God, to keep them in the right way, to keep them continually dwatchful unto prayer, erelying alone upon the merits of Christ, who was the author and the finisher of their faith.
And the achurch did meet together boft, to cfast and to pray, and to speak one with another concerning the welfare of their souls.
And they did ameet together oft to partake of bread and wine, in bremembrance of the Lord Jesus.
And they were strict to observe that there should be ano iniquity among them; and whoso was found to commit iniquity, and bthree witnesses of the church did condemn them before the celders, and if they repented not, and dconfessed not, their names were eblotted out, and they were not fnumbered among the people of Christ.
But aas oft as they repented and sought forgiveness, with real bintent, they were cforgiven.
And their meetings were aconducted by the church after the manner of the workings of the Spirit, and by the bpower of the Holy Ghost; for as the power of the Holy Ghost led them whether to preach, or to exhort, or to pray, or to supplicate, or to sing, even so it was done.
 And now I, Moroni, write a few of the words of my father Mormon, which he spake concerning afaith, hope, and charity; for after this manner did he speak unto the people, as he taught them in the bsynagogue which they had built for the place of worship.
And now I, Mormon, speak unto you, my beloved brethren; and it is by the agrace of God the Father, and our Lord Jesus Christ, and his holy will, because of the gift of his bcalling unto me, that I am permitted to speak unto you at this time.
Wherefore, I would speak unto you that are of the achurch, that are the bpeaceable followers of Christ, and that have obtained a sufficient chope by which ye can enter into the drest of the Lord, from this time henceforth until ye shall rest with him in heaven.
And now my brethren, I judge these things of you because of your peaceable awalk with the children of men.
For I remember the word of God which saith by their aworks ye shall know them; for if their works be good, then they are good also.
For behold, God hath said a man being aevil cannot do that which is good; for if he boffereth a gift, or cprayeth unto God, except he shall do it with real dintent it profiteth him nothing.
For behold, it is not counted unto him for righteousness.
For behold, if a man being aevil giveth a gift, he doeth it bgrudgingly; wherefore it is counted unto him the same as if he had retained the gift; wherefore he is counted evil before God.
And likewise also is it counted evil unto a man, if he shall pray and not with areal intent of heart; yea, and it profiteth him nothing, for God receiveth none such.
Wherefore, a man being evil cannot do that which is good; neither will he give a good gift.
For behold, a bitter afountain cannot bring forth good water; neither can a good fountain bring forth bitter water; wherefore, a man being a servant of the devil cannot follow Christ; and if he bfollow Christ he cannot be a cservant of the devil.
Wherefore, all things which are agood cometh of God; and that which is bevil cometh of the devil; for the devil is an enemy unto God, and fighteth against him continually, and inviteth and enticeth to csin, and to do that which is evil continually.
But behold, that which is of God inviteth and enticeth to do agood continually; wherefore, every thing which inviteth and benticeth to do cgood, and to love God, and to serve him, is dinspired of God.
Wherefore, take heed, my beloved brethren, that ye do not judge that which is aevil to be of God, or that which is good and of God to be of the devil.
For behold, my brethren, it is given unto you to ajudge, that ye may know good from evil; and the way to judge is as plain, that ye may know with a perfect knowledge, as the daylight is from the dark night.
For behold, the aSpirit of Christ is given to every bman, that he may cknow good from evil; wherefore, I show unto you the way to judge; for every thing which inviteth to do good, and to persuade to believe in Christ, is sent forth by the power and gift of Christ; wherefore ye may know with a perfect knowledge it is of God.
But whatsoever thing persuadeth men to do aevil, and believe not in Christ, and deny him, and serve not God, then ye may know with a perfect knowledge it is of the devil; for after this manner doth the devil work, for he persuadeth no man to do good, no, not one; neither do his angels; neither do they who subject themselves unto him.
And now, my brethren, seeing that ye know the alight by which ye may judge, which light is the light of Christ, see that ye do not judge wrongfully; for with that same bjudgment which ye judge ye shall also be judged.
Wherefore, I beseech of you, brethren, that ye should search diligently in the alight of Christ that ye may know good from evil; and if ye will lay hold upon every good thing, and condemn it not, ye certainly will be a bchild of Christ.
And now, my brethren, how is it possible that ye can lay hold upon every good thing?
And now I come to that faith, of which I said I would speak; and I will tell you the way whereby ye may lay hold on every good thing.
For behold, God aknowing all things, being from beverlasting to everlasting, behold, he sent cangels to minister unto the children of men, to make manifest concerning the coming of Christ; and in Christ there should come every good thing.
And God also declared unto prophets, by his own mouth, that Christ should come.
And behold, there were divers ways that he did manifest things unto the children of men, which were good; and all things which are good cometh of Christ; otherwise men were afallen, and there could no good thing come unto them.
Wherefore, by the ministering of aangels, and by every word which proceeded forth out of the mouth of God, men began to exercise faith in Christ; and thus by faith, they did lay hold upon every good thing; and thus it was until the coming of Christ.
And after that he came men also were asaved by faith in his name; and by faith, they become the bsons of God.
And as surely as Christ liveth he spake these words unto our fathers, saying: cWhatsoever thing ye shall ask the Father in my name, which is good, in faith believing that ye shall receive, behold, it shall be done unto you.
Wherefore, my beloved brethren, have amiracles ceased because Christ hath ascended into heaven, and hath sat down on the right hand of God, to bclaim of the Father his rights of mercy which he hath upon the children of men?
For he hath answered the ends of the law, and he claimeth all those who have faith in him; and they who have faith in him will acleave unto every good thing; wherefore he badvocateth the cause of the children of men; and he dwelleth eternally in the heavens.
And because he hath done this, my beloved brethren, have miracles ceased?
Behold I say unto you, Nay; neither have aangels ceased to minister unto the children of men.
For behold, they are subject unto him, to minister according to the word of his command, showing themselves unto them of strong faith and a firm mind in every form of agodliness.
And the office of their ministry is to call men unto repentance, and to fulfil and to do the work of the covenants of the Father, which he hath made unto the children of men, to prepare the way among the children of men, by declaring the word of Christ unto the achosen vessels of the Lord, that they may bear testimony of him.
And by so doing, the Lord God prepareth the way that the aresidue of men may have bfaith in Christ, that the Holy Ghost may have place in their hearts, according to the power thereof; and after this manner bringeth to pass the Father, the covenants which he hath made unto the children of men.
And Christ hath said: aIf ye will have bfaith in me ye shall have power to do whatsoever thing is cexpedient in me.
And he hath said: aRepent all ye ends of the earth, and come unto me, and be baptized in my name, and have faith in me, that ye may be saved.
And now, my beloved brethren, if this be the case that these things are true which I have spoken unto you, and God will show unto you, with apower and great glory at the last bday, that they are true, and if they are true has the day of miracles ceased?
Or have angels ceased to appear unto the children of men?
Or has he awithheld the power of the Holy Ghost from them?
Or will he, so long as time shall last, or the earth shall stand, or there shall be one man upon the face thereof to be saved?
Behold I say unto you, Nay; for it is by faith that amiracles are wrought; and it is by faith that angels appear and minister unto men; wherefore, if these things have ceased wo be unto the children of men, for it is because of bunbelief, and all is vain.
For no man can be saved, according to the words of Christ, save they shall have faith in his name; wherefore, if these things have ceased, then has faith ceased also; and awful is the state of man, for they are as though there had been no redemption made.
But behold, my beloved brethren, I judge better things of you, for I judge that ye have faith in Christ because of your meekness; for if ye have not faith in him then ye are not afit to be numbered among the people of his church.
And again, my beloved brethren, I would speak unto you concerning ahope.
How is it that ye can attain unto faith, save ye shall have hope?
And what is it that ye shall ahope for?
Behold I say unto you that ye shall have bhope through the atonement of Christ and the power of his resurrection, to be raised unto life ceternal, and this because of your faith in him according to the promise.
Wherefore, if a man have afaith he bmust needs have hope; for without faith there cannot be any hope.
And again, behold I say unto you that he cannot have faith and hope, save he shall be ameek, and lowly of heart.
If so, his afaith and hope is vain, for none is bacceptable before God, save the cmeek and lowly in heart; and if a man be meek and lowly in heart, and dconfesses by the power of the Holy Ghost that Jesus is the Christ, he must needs have charity; for if he have not charity he is nothing; wherefore he must needs have charity.
And acharity suffereth long, and is bkind, and cenvieth not, and is not puffed up, seeketh not her own, is not easily dprovoked, thinketh no evil, and rejoiceth not in iniquity but rejoiceth in the truth, beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things.
Wherefore, my beloved brethren, if ye have not charity, ye are nothing, for charity never faileth.
Wherefore, cleave unto charity, which is the greatest of all, for all things must fail— But acharity is the pure blove of Christ, and it endureth cforever; and whoso is found possessed of it at the last day, it shall be well with him.
Wherefore, my beloved brethren, apray unto the Father with all the energy of heart, that ye may be filled with this love, which he hath bestowed upon all who are true bfollowers of his Son, Jesus Christ; that ye may become the sons of God; that when he shall appear we shall cbe like him, for we shall see him as he is; that we may have this hope; that we may be dpurified even as he is pure.
Amen.
 An epistle of my afather Mormon, written to me, Moroni; and it was written unto me soon after my calling to the ministry.
And on this wise did he write unto me, saying: My beloved son, Moroni, I rejoice exceedingly that your Lord Jesus Christ hath been mindful of you, and hath called you to his ministry, and to his holy work.
I am mindful of you always in my prayers, continually praying unto God the Father in the name of his Holy Child, Jesus, that he, through his infinite agoodness and bgrace, will keep you through the endurance of faith on his name to the end.
And now, my son, I speak unto you concerning that which grieveth me exceedingly; for it grieveth me that there should adisputations rise among you.
For, if I have learned the truth, there have been disputations among you concerning the baptism of your little children.
And now, my son, I desire that ye should labor diligently, that this gross error should be removed from among you; for, for this intent I have written this epistle.
For immediately after I had learned these things of you I inquired of the Lord concerning the matter.
And the aword of the Lord came to me by the power of the Holy Ghost, saying: aListen to the words of Christ, your Redeemer, your Lord and your God.
Behold, I came into the world not to call the righteous but sinners to repentance; the bwhole need no physician, but they that are sick; wherefore, little cchildren are dwhole, for they are not capable of committing esin; wherefore the curse of fAdam is taken from them in me, that it hath no power over them; and the law of gcircumcision is done away in me.
And after this manner did the Holy Ghost manifest the word of God unto me; wherefore, my beloved son, I know that it is solemn amockery before God, that ye should baptize little children.
Behold I say unto you that this thing shall ye teach—repentance and baptism unto those who are aaccountable and capable of committing sin; yea, teach parents that they must repent and be baptized, and humble themselves as their little bchildren, and they shall all be saved with their little children.
And their little achildren need no repentance, neither baptism.
Behold, baptism is unto repentance to the fulfilling the commandments unto the bremission of sins.
But little achildren are alive in Christ, even from the foundation of the world; if not so, God is a partial God, and also a changeable God, and a brespecter to persons; for how many little children have died without baptism!
Wherefore, if little children could not be saved without baptism, these must have gone to an endless hell.
Behold I say unto you, that he that supposeth that little children need baptism is in the gall of bitterness and in the bonds of iniquity; for he hath neither afaith, hope, nor charity; wherefore, should he be cut off while in the thought, he must go down to hell.
For awful is the wickedness to suppose that God saveth one child because of baptism, and the other must perish because he hath no baptism.
Wo be unto them that shall pervert the ways of the Lord after this manner, for they shall perish except they repent.
Behold, I speak with boldness, having aauthority from God; and I fear not what man can do; for bperfect clove dcasteth out all fear.
And I am filled with acharity, which is everlasting love; wherefore, all children are alike unto me; wherefore, I love little children with a perfect love; and they are all alike and bpartakers of salvation.
For I know that God is not a partial God, neither a changeable being; but he is aunchangeable from ball eternity to all eternity.
Little achildren cannot repent; wherefore, it is awful wickedness to deny the pure mercies of God unto them, for they are all alive in him because of his bmercy.
And he that saith that little children need baptism denieth the mercies of Christ, and setteth at naught the aatonement of him and the power of his redemption.
Wo unto such, for they are in danger of death, ahell, and an bendless torment.
I speak it boldly; God hath commanded me.
Listen unto them and give heed, or they stand against you at the cjudgment-seat of Christ.
For behold that all little children are aalive in Christ, and also all they that are without the blaw.
For the power of credemption cometh on all them that have dno law; wherefore, he that is not condemned, or he that is under no condemnation, cannot repent; and unto such baptism availeth nothing— But it is mockery before God, denying the mercies of Christ, and the power of his Holy Spirit, and putting trust in adead works.
Behold, my son, this thing ought not to be; for arepentance is unto them that are under condemnation and under the curse of a broken law.
And the first fruits of arepentance is bbaptism; and baptism cometh by faith unto the fulfilling the commandments; and the fulfilling the commandments bringeth cremission of sins; And the remission of sins bringeth ameekness, and lowliness of heart; and because of meekness and lowliness of heart cometh the visitation of the bHoly Ghost, which cComforter dfilleth with hope and perfect elove, which love endureth by fdiligence unto gprayer, until the end shall come, when all the hsaints shall dwell with God.
Behold, my son, I will write unto you again if I go not out soon against the Lamanites.
Behold, the apride of this nation, or the people of the Nephites, hath proven their destruction except they should repent.
Pray for them, my son, that repentance may come unto them.
But behold, I fear lest the Spirit hath aceased bstriving with them; and in this part of the land they are also seeking to put down all power and authority which cometh from God; and they are cdenying the Holy Ghost.
And after rejecting so great a knowledge, my son, they must perish soon, unto the fulfilling of the prophecies which were spoken by the prophets, as well as the words of our Savior himself.
Farewell, my son, until I shall write unto you, or shall meet you again.
Amen.
 My beloved son, I write unto you again that ye may know that I am yet alive; but I write somewhat of that which is grievous.
For behold, I have had a sore battle with the Lamanites, in which we did not conquer; and Archeantus has fallen by the sword, and also Luram and Emron; yea, and we have lost a great number of our choice men.
And now behold, my son, I fear lest the Lamanites shall destroy this people; for they do not repent, and Satan stirreth them up continually to aanger one with another.
Behold, I am laboring with them continually; and when I speak the word of God with asharpness they tremble and anger against me; and when I use no sharpness they bharden their hearts against it; wherefore, I fear lest the Spirit of the Lord hath ceased cstriving with them.
For so exceedingly do they anger that it seemeth me that they have no fear of death; and they have lost their love, one towards another; and they athirst after blood and revenge continually.
And now, my beloved son, notwithstanding their hardness, let us labor adiligently; for if we should cease to blabor, we should be brought under condemnation; for we have a labor to perform whilst in this tabernacle of clay, that we may conquer the enemy of all righteousness, and rest our souls in the kingdom of God.
And now I write somewhat concerning the sufferings of this people.
For according to the knowledge which I have received from Amoron, behold, the Lamanites have many prisoners, which they took from the tower of Sherrizah; and there were men, women, and children.
And the husbands and fathers of those women and children they have slain; and they feed the women upon the aflesh of their husbands, and the children upon the flesh of their fathers; and no water, save a little, do they give unto them.
And notwithstanding this great aabomination of the Lamanites, it doth not exceed that of our people in Moriantum.
For behold, many of the daughters of the Lamanites have they taken prisoners; and after bdepriving them of that which was most dear and precious above all things, which is cchastity and dvirtue— And after they had done this thing, they did murder them in a most acruel manner, torturing their bodies even unto death; and after they have done this, they devour their flesh like unto wild beasts, because of the hardness of their hearts; and they do it for a token of bravery.
O my beloved son, how can a people like this, that are without civilization— (And only a few years have passed away, and they were a civil and a delightsome people) But O my son, how can a people like this, whose adelight is in so much abomination— How can we expect that God will astay his hand in judgment against us?
Behold, my heart cries: Wo unto this people.
Come out in judgment, O God, and hide their sins, and wickedness, and abominations from before thy face!
And again, my son, there are many awidows and their daughters who remain in Sherrizah; and that part of the provisions which the Lamanites did not carry away, behold, the army of Zenephi has carried away, and left them to wander whithersoever they can for food; and many old women do faint by the way and die.
And the army which is with me is weak; and the armies of the Lamanites are betwixt Sherrizah and me; and as many as have fled to the army of aAaron have fallen victims to their awful brutality.
O the depravity of my people!
They are without aorder and without mercy.
Behold, I am but a man, and I have but the bstrength of a man, and I cannot any longer enforce my commands.
And they have become strong in their perversion; and they are alike brutal, sparing none, neither old nor young; and they delight in everything save that which is good; and the suffering of our women and our children upon all the face of this land doth exceed everything; yea, tongue cannot tell, neither can it be written.
And now, my son, I dwell no longer upon this horrible scene.
Behold, thou knowest the wickedness of this people; thou knowest that they are without principle, and past feeling; and their wickedness doth aexceed that of the Lamanites.
Behold, my son, I cannot recommend them unto God lest he should smite me.
But behold, my son, I recommend thee unto God, and I trust in Christ that thou wilt be saved; and I apray unto God that he will bspare thy life, to witness the return of his people unto him, or their utter destruction; for I know that they must perish except they crepent and return unto him.
And if they perish it will be like unto the aJaredites, because of the wilfulness of their hearts, bseeking for blood and crevenge.
And if it so be that they perish, we know that many of our brethren have adeserted over unto the Lamanites, and many more will also desert over unto them; wherefore, write somewhat a few things, if thou art spared and I shall perish and not see thee; but I trust that I may see thee soon; for I have sacred records that I would bdeliver up unto thee.
My son, be faithful in Christ; and may not the things which I have written grieve thee, to weigh thee down unto adeath; but may Christ lift thee up, and may his sufferings and death, and the showing his body unto our fathers, and his mercy and blong-suffering, and the hope of his glory and of eternal life, rest in your cmind forever.
And may the grace of God the Father, whose throne is high in the heavens, and our Lord Jesus Christ, who sitteth on the aright hand of his power, until all things shall become subject unto him, be, and abide with you forever.
Amen.
 And now there was no more contention in all the aland of Zarahemla, among all the people who belonged to king Benjamin, so that king Benjamin had continual peace all the remainder of his days.
And it came to pass that he had three asons; and he called their names Mosiah, and Helorum, and Helaman.
And he caused that they should be btaught in all the clanguage of his fathers, that thereby they might become men of understanding; and that they might know concerning the prophecies which had been spoken by the mouths of their fathers, which were delivered them by the hand of the Lord.
And he also taught them concerning the records which were engraven on the aplates of brass, saying: My sons, I would that ye should remember that were it not for these bplates, which contain these records and these commandments, we must have suffered in cignorance, even at this present time, not knowing the mysteries of God.
For it were not possible that our father, Lehi, could have remembered all these things, to have taught them to his children, except it were for the help of these plates; for he having been taught in the alanguage of the Egyptians therefore he could read these engravings, and teach them to his children, that thereby they could teach them to their children, and so fulfilling the commandments of God, even down to this present time.
I say unto you, my sons, awere it not for these things, which have been kept and bpreserved by the hand of God, that we might cread and understand of his dmysteries, and have his ecommandments always before our eyes, that even our fathers would have dwindled in unbelief, and we should have been like unto our brethren, the Lamanites, who know nothing concerning these things, or even do not believe them when they are taught them, because of the ftraditions of their fathers, which are not correct.
O my sons, I would that ye should remember that these sayings are true, and also that these records are atrue.
And behold, also the plates of Nephi, which contain the records and the sayings of our fathers from the time they left Jerusalem until now, and they are true; and we can know of their surety because we have them before our eyes.
And now, my sons, I would that ye should remember to asearch them diligently, that ye may profit thereby; and I would that ye should bkeep the commandments of God, that ye may cprosper in the land according to the dpromises which the Lord made unto our fathers.
And many more things did king Benjamin teach his sons, which are not written in this book.
And it came to pass that after king Benjamin had made an end of teaching his sons, that he waxed aold, and he saw that he must very soon go the way of all the earth; therefore, he thought it expedient that he should confer the kingdom upon one of his sons.
Therefore, he had Mosiah brought before him; and these are the words which he spake unto him, saying: My son, I would that ye should make a proclamation throughout all this land among all this apeople, or the people of Zarahemla, and the people of Mosiah who dwell in the land, that thereby they may be gathered together; for on the morrow I shall proclaim unto this my people out of mine own mouth that thou art a bking and a ruler over this people, whom the Lord our God hath given us.
And moreover, I shall give this people a aname, that thereby they may be distinguished above all the people which the Lord God hath brought out of the land of Jerusalem; and this I do because they have been a bdiligent people in keeping the commandments of the Lord.
And I give unto them a name that never shall be blotted out, except it be through atransgression.
Yea, and moreover I say unto you, that if this highly favored people of the Lord should fall into atransgression, and become a wicked and an adulterous people, that the Lord will deliver them up, that thereby they become bweak like unto their brethren; and he will no more cpreserve them by his matchless and marvelous power, as he has hitherto preserved our fathers.
For I say unto you, that if he had not extended his arm in the preservation of our fathers they must have fallen into the hands of the Lamanites, and become victims to their hatred.
And it came to pass that after king Benjamin had made an end of these sayings to his son, that he gave him acharge concerning all the affairs of the kingdom.
And moreover, he also gave him charge concerning the records which were engraven on the aplates of brass; and also the plates of Nephi; and also, the bsword of Laban, and the cball or director, which led our fathers through the wilderness, which was prepared by the hand of the Lord that thereby they might be led, every one according to the heed and diligence which they gave unto him.
Therefore, as they were aunfaithful they did not prosper nor progress in their journey, but were bdriven back, and incurred the displeasure of God upon them; and therefore they were smitten with famine and sore cafflictions, to stir them up in dremembrance of their duty.
And now, it came to pass that Mosiah went and did as his father had commanded him, and proclaimed unto all the people who were in the land of Zarahemla that thereby they might gather themselves together, to go up to the atemple to hear the words which his father should speak unto them.
 And it came to pass that we again began to establish the kingdom and we again began to possess the land in peace.
And I caused that there should be aweapons of war made of every kind, that thereby I might have weapons for my people against the time the Lamanites should come up again to war against my people.
And I set guards round about the land, that the Lamanites might not come upon us again unawares and destroy us; and thus I did guard my people and my flocks, and keep them from falling into the hands of our enemies.
And it came to pass that we did inherit the land of our fathers for many years, yea, for the space of twenty and two years.
And I did cause that the men should till the ground, and raise all manner of agrain and all manner of fruit of every kind.
And I did cause that the women should spin, and toil, and work, and work all manner of fine linen, yea, and acloth of every kind, that we might clothe our nakedness; and thus we did prosper in the land—thus we did have continual peace in the land for the space of twenty and two years.
And it came to pass that king aLaman died, and his son began to reign in his stead.
And he began to stir his people up in rebellion against my people; therefore they began to prepare for war, and to come up to battle against my people.
But I had sent my spies out round about the land of aShemlon, that I might discover their preparations, that I might guard against them, that they might not come upon my people and destroy them.
And it came to pass that they came up upon the north of the land of Shilom, with their numerous hosts, men aarmed with bbows, and with arrows, and with swords, and with cimeters, and with stones, and with slings; and they had their heads shaved that they were naked; and they were girded with a leathern girdle about their loins.
And it came to pass that I caused that the women and children of my people should be hid in the wilderness; and I also caused that all my old men that could bear arms, and also all my young men that were able to bear arms, should gather themselves together to go to battle against the Lamanites; and I did place them in their ranks, every man according to his age.
And it came to pass that we did go up to battle against the Lamanites; and I, even I, in my old age, did go up to battle against the Lamanites.
And it came to pass that we did go up in the astrength of the Lord to battle.
Now, the Lamanites knew nothing concerning the Lord, nor the strength of the Lord, therefore they depended upon their own strength.
Yet they were a strong people, as to the astrength of men.
They were a awild, and ferocious, and a blood-thirsty people, believing in the btradition of their fathers, which is this—Believing that they were driven out of the land of Jerusalem because of the iniquities of their fathers, and that they were cwronged in the wilderness by their brethren, and they were also wronged while crossing the sea; And again, that they were wronged while in the land of their afirst inheritance, after they had crossed the sea, and all this because that Nephi was more faithful in keeping the commandments of the Lord—therefore bhe was favored of the Lord, for the Lord heard his prayers and answered them, and he took the lead of their journey in the wilderness.
And his brethren were awroth with him because they bunderstood not the dealings of the Lord; they were also wroth with him upon the waters because they hardened their hearts against the Lord.
And again, they were awroth with him when they had arrived in the promised land, because they said that he had taken the bruling of the people out of their hands; and they sought to kill him.
And again, they were wroth with him because he departed into the wilderness as the Lord had commanded him, and took the arecords which were engraven on the plates of brass, for they said that he brobbed them.
And thus they have taught their children that they should hate them, and that they should murder them, and that they should rob and plunder them, and do all they could to destroy them; therefore they have an eternal hatred towards the children of Nephi.
For this very cause has king Laman, by his acunning, and lying craftiness, and his fair promises, deceived me, that I have brought this my people up into this land, that they may destroy them; yea, and we have suffered these many years in the land.
And now I, Zeniff, after having told all these things unto my people concerning the Lamanites, I did stimulate them to go to battle with their might, putting their trust in the Lord; therefore, we did contend with them, face to face.
And it came to pass that we did drive them again out of our land; and we slew them with a great slaughter, even so many that we did not number them.
And it came to pass that we returned again to our own land, and my people again began to atend their flocks, and to till their ground.
And now I, being old, did confer the kingdom upon one of my sons; therefore, I say no more.
And may the Lord abless my people.
Amen.
 And now it came to pass that Zeniff conferred the kingdom upon Noah, one of his sons; therefore Noah began to reign in his stead; and he did not walk in the ways of his father.
For behold, he did not keep the commandments of God, but he did walk after the desires of his own heart.
And he had many wives and aconcubines.
And he did bcause his people to commit sin, and do that which was cabominable in the sight of the Lord.
Yea, and they did commit dwhoredoms and eall manner of wickedness.
And he laid a atax of one fifth part of all they possessed, a fifth part of their gold and of their silver, and a fifth part of their bziff, and of their copper, and of their brass and their iron; and a fifth part of their fatlings; and also a fifth part of all their grain.
And all this did he take to asupport himself, and his wives and his bconcubines; and also his priests, and their wives and their concubines; thus he had changed the affairs of the kingdom.
For he put down all the priests that had been consecrated by his father, and consecrated new aones in their stead, such as were lifted up in the pride of their hearts.
Yea, and thus they were supported in their laziness, and in their idolatry, and in their whoredoms, by the taxes which king Noah had put upon his people; thus did the people labor exceedingly to support iniquity.
Yea, and they also became idolatrous, because they were deceived by the vain and flattering words of the king and priests; for they did speak flattering things unto them.
And it came to pass that king Noah built many elegant and spacious buildings; and he ornamented them with fine work of wood, and of all manner of aprecious things, of gold, and of silver, and of iron, and of brass, and of ziff, and of copper; And he also built him a spacious palace, and a throne in the midst thereof, all of which was of fine wood and was ornamented with gold and silver and with precious things.
And he also caused that his workmen should work all manner of fine work within the walls of the atemple, of fine wood, and of copper, and of brass.
And the seats which were set apart for the ahigh priests, which were above all the other seats, he did ornament with pure gold; and he caused a breastwork to be built before them, that they might rest their bodies and their arms upon while they should speak lying and vain words to his people.
And it came to pass that he built a atower near the temple; yea, a very high tower, even so high that he could stand upon the top thereof and overlook the land of bShilom, and also the land of cShemlon, which was possessed by the Lamanites; and he could even look over all the land round about.
And it came to pass that he caused many buildings to be built in the land Shilom; and he caused a great tower to be built on the ahill north of the land Shilom, which had been a resort for the children of Nephi at the time they bfled out of the land; and thus he did do with the riches which he obtained by the taxation of his people.
And it came to pass that he placed his heart upon his riches, and he spent his time in ariotous living with his wives and his concubines; and so did also his priests spend their time with harlots.
And it came to pass that he planted vineyards round about in the land; and he built wine-presses, and made awine in abundance; and therefore he became a wine-bibber, and also his people.
And it came to pass that the Lamanites began to come in upon his people, upon small numbers, and to slay them in their fields, and while they were tending their flocks.
And king Noah sent guards round about the land to keep them off; but he did not send a sufficient number, and the Lamanites came upon them and killed them, and drove many of their flocks out of the land; thus the Lamanites began to destroy them, and to exercise their hatred upon them.
And it came to pass that king Noah sent his armies against them, and they were driven back, or they drove them back for a time; therefore, they returned rejoicing in their spoil.
And now, because of this great victory they were lifted up in the pride of their hearts; they did aboast in their own strength, saying that their fifty could stand against thousands of the Lamanites; and thus they did boast, and did delight in blood, and the shedding of the blood of their brethren, and this because of the wickedness of their king and priests.
And it came to pass that there was a man among them whose name was aAbinadi; and he went forth among them, and began to prophesy, saying: Behold, thus saith the Lord, and thus hath he commanded me, saying, Go forth, and say unto this people, thus saith the Lord—Wo be unto this people, for I have seen their abominations, and their wickedness, and their whoredoms; and except they repent I will bvisit them in mine anger.
And except they repent and turn to the Lord their God, behold, I will deliver them into the hands of their enemies; yea, and they shall be brought into abondage; and they shall be afflicted by the hand of their enemies.
And it shall come to pass that they shall aknow that I am the Lord their God, and am a bjealous God, visiting the iniquities of my people.
And it shall come to pass that except this people repent and turn unto the Lord their God, they shall be brought into bondage; and none shall adeliver them, except it be the Lord the Almighty God.
Yea, and it shall come to pass that when they shall acry unto me I will be bslow to hear their cries; yea, and I will suffer them that they be smitten by their enemies.
And except they repent in asackcloth and ashes, and cry mightily to the Lord their God, I will not bhear their prayers, neither will I deliver them out of their afflictions; and thus saith the Lord, and thus hath he commanded me.
Now it came to pass that when Abinadi had spoken these words unto them they were wroth with him, and sought to take away his life; but the Lord adelivered him out of their hands.
Now when king Noah had heard of the words which Abinadi had spoken unto the people, he was also wroth; and he said: aWho is Abinadi, that I and my people should be judged of him, or bwho is the Lord, that shall bring upon my people such great affliction?
I command you to bring Abinadi hither, that I may slay him, for he has said these things that he might astir up my people to anger one with another, and to raise contentions among my people; therefore I will slay him.
Now the eyes of the people were ablinded; therefore they bhardened their hearts against the words of Abinadi, and they sought from that time forward to take him.
And king Noah hardened his heart against the word of the Lord, and he did not repent of his evil doings.
 And it came to pass that after the space of two years that Abinadi came among them in disguise, that they knew him not, and began to aprophesy among them, saying: Thus has the Lord commanded me, saying—Abinadi, go and prophesy unto this my people, for they have hardened their hearts against my words; they have repented not of their evil doings; therefore, I will bvisit them in my anger, yea, in my fierce anger will I visit them in their iniquities and abominations.
Yea, wo be unto this generation!
And the Lord said unto me: Stretch forth thy hand and prophesy, saying: Thus saith the Lord, it shall come to pass that this generation, because of their iniquities, shall be brought into abondage, and shall be smitten on the bcheek; yea, and shall be driven by men, and shall be slain; and the vultures of the air, and the dogs, yea, and the wild beasts, shall devour their cflesh.
And it shall come to pass that the alife of king Noah shall be valued even as a garment in a hot bfurnace; for he shall know that I am the Lord.
And it shall come to pass that I will smite this my people with sore afflictions, yea, with famine and with apestilence; and I will cause that they shall bhowl all the day long.
Yea, and I will cause that they shall have aburdens lashed upon their backs; and they shall be driven before like a dumb ass.
And it shall come to pass that I will send forth ahail among them, and it shall smite them; and they shall also be smitten with the beast wind; and cinsects shall pester their land also, and devour their grain.
And they shall be smitten with a great pestilence—and all this will I do because of their ainiquities and abominations.
And it shall come to pass that except they repent I will utterly adestroy them from off the face of the earth; yet they shall leave a brecord behind them, and I will preserve them for other nations which shall possess the land; yea, even this will I do that I may discover the abominations of this people to other nations.
And many things did Abinadi prophesy against this people.
And it came to pass that they were angry with him; and they took him and carried him bound before the king, and said unto the king: Behold, we have brought a man before thee who has prophesied evil concerning thy people, and saith that God will destroy them.
And he also prophesieth evil concerning thy alife, and saith that thy life shall be as a garment in a furnace of fire.
And again, he saith that thou shalt be as a stalk, even as a dry stalk of the field, which is run over by the beasts and trodden under foot.
And again, he saith thou shalt be as the blossoms of a thistle, which, when it is fully ripe, if the wind bloweth, it is driven forth upon the face of the land.
And he pretendeth the Lord hath spoken it.
And he saith all this shall come upon thee except thou repent, and this because of thine iniquities.
And now, O king, what great evil hast thou done, or what great sins have thy people committed, that we should be acondemned of God or judged of this man?
And now, O king, behold, we are aguiltless, and thou, O king, hast not sinned; therefore, this man has blied concerning you, and he has prophesied in vain.
And behold, we are strong, we shall not come into bondage, or be taken captive by our enemies; yea, and thou hast prospered in the land, and thou shalt also prosper.
Behold, here is the man, we deliver him into thy hands; thou mayest do with him as seemeth thee good.
And it came to pass that king Noah caused that Abinadi should be cast into prison; and he commanded that the apriests should gather themselves together that he might hold a council with them what he should do with him.
And it came to pass that they said unto the king: Bring him hither that we may question him; and the king commanded that he should be brought before them.
And they began to question him, that they might cross him, that thereby they might have wherewith to aaccuse him; but he answered them boldly, and withstood all their questions, yea, to their astonishment; for he did bwithstand them in all their questions, and did confound them in all their words.
And it came to pass that one of them said unto him: aWhat meaneth the words which are written, and which have been taught by our fathers, saying: aHow beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him bthat bringeth good tidings; that publisheth peace; that bringeth good tidings of good; that publisheth salvation; that saith unto Zion, Thy God reigneth; aThy watchmen shall lift up the voice; with the voice together shall they sing; for they shall see eye to eye when the Lord shall bring again Zion; Break forth into joy; sing together ye waste places of Jerusalem; for the Lord hath comforted his people, he hath redeemed Jerusalem; The Lord hath made bare his holy aarm in the eyes of all the nations, and all the ends of the earth shall see the salvation of our God?
And now Abinadi said unto them: Are you apriests, and pretend to teach this people, and to understand the spirit of prophesying, and yet desire to know of me what these things mean?
I say unto you, wo be unto you for perverting the ways of the Lord!
For if ye understand these things ye have not taught them; therefore, ye have perverted the ways of the Lord.
Ye have not applied your ahearts to bunderstanding; therefore, ye have not been wise.
Therefore, what teach ye this people?
And they said: We teach the law of Moses.
And again he said unto them: If ye teach the alaw of Moses why do ye not keep it?
Why do ye set your hearts upon briches?
Why do ye commit whoredoms and cspend your strength with harlots, yea, and cause this people to commit sin, that the Lord has cause to send me to prophesy against this people, yea, even a great evil against this people?
Know ye not that I speak the atruth?
Yea, ye know that I speak the truth; and you ought to tremble before God.
And it shall come to pass that ye shall be smitten for your iniquities, for ye have said that ye teach the law of Moses.
And what know ye concerning the law of Moses?
aDoth salvation come by the law of Moses?
What say ye?
And they answered and said that salvation did come by the law of Moses.
But now Abinadi said unto them: I know if ye akeep the commandments of God ye shall be saved; yea, if ye keep the commandments which the Lord delivered unto Moses in the mount of bSinai, saying: aI am the Lord thy God, who hath bbrought thee out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage.
Thou shalt have no aother God before me.
aThou shalt not make unto thee any graven image, or any likeness of any thing in heaven above, or things which are in the earth beneath.
Now Abinadi said unto them, Have ye done all this?
I say unto you, Nay, ye have not.
And have ye ataught this people that they should do all these things?
I say unto you, Nay, ye have not.
 Yea, even doth not Isaiah say: Who hath abelieved our report, and to whom is the arm of the Lord revealed?
For he shall grow up before him as a tender plant, and as a root out of dry ground; he hath no form nor comeliness; and when we shall see him there is no beauty that we should desire him.
He is adespised and rejected of men; a man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief; and we hid as it were our faces from him; he was despised, and we esteemed him not.
Surely he has aborne our bgriefs, and carried our sorrows; yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted.
But he was awounded for our btransgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities; the chastisement of our peace was upon him; and with his stripes we are chealed.
All we, like asheep, have gone astray; we have turned every one to his own way; and the Lord hath laid on him the iniquities of us all.
He was oppressed, and he was afflicted, yet he aopened not his mouth; he is brought as a blamb to the slaughter, and as a sheep before her shearers is dumb so he opened not his mouth.
He was taken from prison and from judgment; and who shall declare his generation?
For he was cut off out of the land of the living; for the transgressions of my people was he stricken.
And he made his grave with the wicked, and with the arich in his death; because he had done no bevil, neither was any deceit in his mouth.
Yet it pleased the Lord to abruise him; he hath put him to grief; when thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin he shall see his bseed, he shall prolong his days, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand.
He shall see the travail of his soul, and shall be satisfied; by his knowledge shall my righteous servant justify many; for he shall abear their iniquities.
Therefore will I divide him a portion with the agreat, and bhe shall divide the spoil with the strong; because he hath poured out his soul unto death; and he was numbered with the transgressors; and he bore the sins of many, and made cintercession for the transgressors.
 And now Abinadi said unto them: I would that ye should understand that aGod himself shall bcome down among the children of men, and shall credeem his people.
And because he adwelleth in bflesh he shall be called the cSon of God, and having subjected the flesh to the dwill of the eFather, being the Father and the Son— The Father, abecause he was bconceived by the power of God; and the Son, because of the flesh; thus becoming the Father and Son— And they are aone God, yea, the very bEternal cFather of heaven and of earth.
And thus the flesh becoming subject to the Spirit, or the Son to the Father, being one God, asuffereth temptation, and yieldeth not to the temptation, but suffereth himself to be mocked, and bscourged, and cast out, and disowned by his cpeople.
And after all this, after working many mighty miracles among the children of men, he shall be led, yea, even aas Isaiah said, as a sheep before the shearer is dumb, so he bopened not his mouth.
Yea, even so he shall be led, acrucified, and slain, the bflesh becoming subject even unto death, the cwill of the Son being swallowed up in the will of the Father.
And thus God breaketh the abands of death, having gained the bvictory over death; giving the Son power to make cintercession for the children of men— Having ascended into heaven, having the bowels of mercy; being filled with compassion towards the children of men; standing betwixt them and justice; having broken the bands of death, taken upon ahimself their iniquity and their transgressions, having redeemed them, and bsatisfied the demands of justice.
And now I say unto you, who shall declare his ageneration?
Behold, I say unto you, that when his soul has been made an offering for bsin he shall see his cseed.
And now what say ye?
And who shall be his seed?
Behold I say unto you, that whosoever has heard the words of the aprophets, yea, all the holy prophets who have prophesied concerning the coming of the Lord—I say unto you, that all those who have hearkened unto their words, and believed that the Lord would redeem his people, and have looked forward to that day for a remission of their sins, I say unto you, that these are his seed, or they are the heirs of the bkingdom of God.
For these are they whose sins ahe has borne; these are they for whom he has died, to redeem them from their transgressions.
And now, are they not his seed?
Yea, and are not the aprophets, every one that has opened his mouth to prophesy, that has not fallen into transgression, I mean all the holy prophets ever since the world began?
I say unto you that they are his seed.
And these are athey who have published peace, who have brought good btidings of good, who have cpublished salvation; and said unto Zion: Thy God reigneth!
And O how beautiful upon the mountains were their feet!
And again, how beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of those that are still publishing peace!
And again, how beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of those who shall hereafter publish peace, yea, from this time henceforth and forever!
And behold, I say unto you, this is not all.
For O how beautiful upon the mountains are the afeet of him that bringeth good tidings, that is the founder of bpeace, yea, even the Lord, who has redeemed his people; yea, him who has granted salvation unto his people; For were it not for the redemption which he hath made for his people, which was prepared from the afoundation of the world, I say unto you, were it not for this, all mankind must have bperished.
But behold, the bands of death shall be broken, and the Son reigneth, and hath power over the dead; therefore, he bringeth to pass the resurrection of the dead.
And there cometh a resurrection, even a afirst resurrection; yea, even a resurrection of those that have been, and who are, and who shall be, even until the resurrection of Christ—for so shall he be called.
And now, the resurrection of all the prophets, and all those that have believed in their words, or all those that have kept the commandments of God, shall come forth in the first resurrection; therefore, they are the first resurrection.
They are raised to adwell with God who has redeemed them; thus they have eternal life through Christ, who has bbroken the bands of death.
And these are those who have part in the first resurrection; and these are they that have died before Christ came, in their ignorance, not having asalvation declared unto them.
And thus the Lord bringeth about the restoration of these; and they have a part in the first resurrection, or have eternal life, being redeemed by the Lord.
And little achildren also have eternal life.
But behold, and afear, and tremble before God, for ye ought to tremble; for the Lord redeemeth none such that brebel against him and cdie in their sins; yea, even all those that have perished in their sins ever since the world began, that have wilfully rebelled against God, that have known the commandments of God, and would not keep them; dthese are they that have eno part in the first fresurrection.
Therefore ought ye not to tremble?
For salvation cometh to none such; for the Lord hath redeemed none such; yea, neither can the Lord redeem such; for he cannot deny himself; for he cannot deny ajustice when it has its claim.
And now I say unto you that the time shall come that the asalvation of the Lord shall be declared to every nation, kindred, tongue, and people.
Yea, Lord, athy bwatchmen shall lift up their voice; with the voice together shall they sing; for they shall see eye to eye, when the Lord shall bring again Zion.
Break forth into joy, sing together, ye waste places of Jerusalem; for the Lord hath comforted his people, he hath redeemed Jerusalem.
The Lord hath made bare his holy arm in the eyes of all the nations; and all the ends of the earth shall see the asalvation of our God.
 And now, it came to pass that after Abinadi had spoken these words he stretched forth his hand and said: The time shall come when all shall see the asalvation of the Lord; when bevery nation, kindred, tongue, and people shall see eye to eye and shall cconfess before God that his djudgments are just.
And then shall the awicked be bcast out, and they shall have cause to howl, and cweep, and wail, and gnash their teeth; and this because they would not dhearken unto the voice of the Lord; therefore the Lord redeemeth them not.
For they are acarnal and devilish, and the devil has power over them; yea, even that old serpent that did bbeguile our first parents, which was the ccause of their fall; which was the cause of dall mankind becoming carnal, sensual, devilish, eknowing evil from good, fsubjecting themselves to the devil.
Thus all mankind were alost; and behold, they would have been endlessly lost were it not that God redeemed his people from their lost and fallen state.
But remember that he that persists in his own acarnal nature, and goes on in the ways of sin and rebellion against God, remaineth in his fallen state and the bdevil hath all power over him.
Therefore he is as though there was no credemption made, being an enemy to God; and also is the ddevil an enemy to God.
And now if Christ had not come into the world, speaking of things to come aas though they had already come, there could have been no redemption.
And if Christ had not risen from the dead, or have broken the bands of death that the grave should have no victory, and that death should have no asting, there could have been no resurrection.
But there is a aresurrection, therefore the grave hath no victory, and the sting of bdeath is swallowed up in Christ.
He is the alight and the life of the world; yea, a light that is endless, that can never be darkened; yea, and also a life which is endless, that there can be no more death.
Even this mortal shall put on aimmortality, and this bcorruption shall put on incorruption, and shall be brought to cstand before the bar of God, to be judged of him according to their works whether they be good or whether they be evil— If they be good, to the resurrection of aendless life and bhappiness; and if they be evil, to the resurrection of cendless damnation, being delivered up to the devil, who hath subjected them, which is damnation— Having gone according to their own carnal wills and desires; having never called upon the Lord while the arms of mercy were extended towards them; for the arms of mercy were extended towards them, and they would anot; they being warned of their iniquities and yet they would not depart from them; and they were commanded to repent and yet they would not repent.
And now, ought ye not to tremble and repent of your sins, and remember that only in and through Christ ye can be saved?
Therefore, if ye teach the alaw of Moses, also teach that it is a bshadow of those things which are to come— Teach them that redemption cometh through Christ the Lord, who is the very aEternal Father.
Amen.
 And now it came to pass that when Abinadi had finished these sayings, that the king commanded that the apriests should take him and cause that he should be put to bdeath.
But there was one among them whose name was aAlma, he also being a descendant of Nephi.
And he was a young man, and he bbelieved the words which Abinadi had spoken, for he knew concerning the iniquity which Abinadi had testified against them; therefore he began to plead with the king that he would not be angry with Abinadi, but suffer that he might depart in peace.
But the king was more wroth, and caused that Alma should be cast out from among them, and sent his servants after him that they might slay him.
But he fled from before them and ahid himself that they found him not.
And he being concealed for many days did bwrite all the words which Abinadi had spoken.
And it came to pass that the king caused that his guards should surround Abinadi and take him; and they bound him and cast him into prison.
And after three days, having counseled with his apriests, he caused that he should again be brought before him.
And he said unto him: Abinadi, we have found an accusation against thee, and thou art worthy of death.
For thou hast said that aGod himself should come down among the children of men; and now, for this cause thou shalt be put to death unless thou wilt recall all the words which thou hast spoken evil concerning me and my people.
Now Abinadi said unto him: I say unto you, I will anot recall the words which I have spoken unto you concerning this people, for they are true; and that ye may know of their surety I have suffered myself that I have fallen into your hands.
Yea, and I will asuffer even until death, and I will not recall my words, and they shall stand as a btestimony against you.
And if ye slay me ye will shed cinnocent blood, and this shall also stand as a testimony against you at the last day.
And now king Noah was about to release him, for he feared his word; for he feared that the judgments of God would come upon him.
But the apriests lifted up their voices against him, and began to accuse him, saying: He has reviled the king.
Therefore the king was stirred up in banger against him, and he delivered him up that he might be slain.
And it came to pass that they took him and bound him, and ascourged his skin with faggots, yea, even unto bdeath.
And now when the flames began to scorch him, he cried unto them, saying: Behold, even as ye have done unto me, so shall it come to pass that thy aseed shall cause that many shall suffer the pains that I do suffer, even the pains of bdeath by fire; and this because they believe in the salvation of the Lord their God.
And it will come to pass that ye shall be afflicted with all manner of adiseases because of your iniquities.
Yea, and ye shall be smitten on every hand, and shall be driven and scattered to and fro, even as a wild flock is driven by wild and ferocious beasts.
And in that day ye shall be ahunted, and ye shall be taken by the hand of your enemies, and then ye shall suffer, as I suffer, the pains of bdeath by fire.
Thus God executeth avengeance upon those that destroy his people.
O God, breceive my soul.
And now, when aAbinadi had said these words, he fell, having suffered death by fire; yea, having been put to death because he would not deny the commandments of God, having sealed the truth of his words by his bdeath.
 And now, it came to pass that Alma, who had fled from the servants of king Noah, arepented of his sins and iniquities, and went about privately among the people, and began to teach the words of Abinadi— Yea, concerning that which was to come, and also concerning the resurrection of the dead, and the aredemption of the people, which was to be brought to pass through the power, and sufferings, and bdeath of Christ, and his resurrection and ascension into heaven.
And as many as would hear his word he did teach.
And he taught them privately, that it might not come to the knowledge of the king.
And many did believe his words.
And it came to pass that as many as did believe him did go forth to a aplace which was called Mormon, having received its name from the king, being in the bborders of the land having been infested, by times or at seasons, by wild beasts.
Now, there was in Mormon a fountain of pure water, and Alma resorted thither, there being near the water a thicket of small trees, where he did hide himself in the daytime from the searches of the king.
And it came to pass that as many as believed him went thither to hear his words.
And it came to pass after many days there were a goodly number gathered together at the place of Mormon, to hear the words of Alma.
Yea, all were gathered together that believed on his word, to hear him.
And he did ateach them, and did preach unto them repentance, and redemption, and faith on the Lord.
And it came to pass that he said unto them: Behold, here are the waters of Mormon (for thus were they called) and now, as ye are adesirous to come into the bfold of God, and to be called his people, and are willing to bear one another’s burdens, that they may be light; Yea, and are awilling to mourn with those that bmourn; yea, and comfort those that stand in need of comfort, and to stand as cwitnesses of God at all times and in all things, and in all places that ye may be in, even until death, that ye may be redeemed of God, and be numbered with those of the dfirst resurrection, that ye may have eternal life— Now I say unto you, if this be the desire of your hearts, what have you against being abaptized in the bname of the Lord, as a witness before him that ye have entered into a ccovenant with him, that ye will serve him and keep his commandments, that he may pour out his Spirit more abundantly upon you?
And now when the people had heard these words, they clapped their hands for joy, and exclaimed: This is the desire of our hearts.
And now it came to pass that Alma took Helam, he being one of the first, and went and stood forth in the water, and cried, saying: O Lord, pour out thy Spirit upon thy servant, that he may do this work with holiness of heart.
And when he had said these words, the aSpirit of the Lord was upon him, and he said: Helam, I baptize thee, having bauthority from the Almighty God, as a testimony that ye have entered into a ccovenant to serve him until you are dead as to the mortal body; and may the Spirit of the Lord be poured out upon you; and may he grant unto you eternal life, through the redemption of Christ, whom he has prepared from the dfoundation of the world.
And after Alma had said these words, both Alma and Helam were aburied in the water; and they arose and came forth out of the water rejoicing, being filled with the Spirit.
And again, Alma took another, and went forth a second time into the water, and baptized him according to the first, only he did not bury ahimself again in the water.
And after this manner he did baptize every one that went forth to the place of Mormon; and they were in number about two hundred and four souls; yea, and they were abaptized in the waters of Mormon, and were filled with the bgrace of God.
And they were called the church of God, or the achurch of Christ, from that time forward.
And it came to pass that whosoever was baptized by the power and authority of God was added to his church.
And it came to pass that Alma, having aauthority from God, bordained priests; even one priest to every fifty of their number did he ordain to preach unto them, and to cteach them concerning the things pertaining to the kingdom of God.
And he commanded them that athey should bteach nothing save it were the things which he had taught, and which had been spoken by the mouth of the holy prophets.
Yea, even he commanded them that they should apreach nothing save it were repentance and faith on the Lord, who had redeemed his people.
And he commanded them that there should be no acontention one with another, but that they should look forward with bone eye, having one faith and one baptism, having their hearts cknit together in unity and in love one towards another.
And thus he commanded them to preach.
And thus they became the achildren of God.
And he commanded them that they should observe the asabbath day, and keep it holy, and also every day they should give thanks to the Lord their God.
And he also commanded them that the priests whom he had ordained ashould blabor with their own hands for their support.
And there was aone day in every week that was set apart that they should bgather themselves together to teach the people, and to worship the Lord their God, and also, as often as it was in their power, to cassemble themselves together.
And the priests were not to depend upon the people for their support; but for their labor they were to receive the agrace of God, that they might wax strong in the Spirit, having the bknowledge of God, that they might teach with power and authority from God.
And again Alma commanded that the people of the church should impart of their substance, aevery one according to that which he had; if he have more abundantly he should impart more abundantly; and of him that had but little, but little should be required; and to him that had not should be given.
And thus they should impart of their asubstance of their own free will and good desires towards God, and to those priests that stood in need, yea, and to every needy, naked soul.
And this he said unto them, having been commanded of God; and they did awalk uprightly before God, imparting to one another both temporally and spiritually according to their needs and their wants.
And now it came to pass that all this was done in Mormon, yea, by the awaters of Mormon, in the forest that was near the waters of Mormon; yea, the place of Mormon, the waters of Mormon, the forest of Mormon, how beautiful are they to the eyes of them who there came to the knowledge of their Redeemer; yea, and how blessed are they, for they shall bsing to his praise forever.
And these things were done in the aborders of the land, that they might not come to the knowledge of the king.
But behold, it came to pass that the king, having discovered a movement among the people, sent his servants to watch them.
Therefore on the day that they were assembling themselves together to hear the word of the Lord they were discovered unto the king.
And now the king said that Alma was stirring up the people to rebellion against him; therefore he sent his aarmy to destroy them.
And it came to pass that Alma and the people of the Lord were aapprised of the coming of the king’s army; therefore they took their tents and their families and bdeparted into the wilderness.
And they were in number about afour hundred and fifty souls.
 And it came to pass that the aarmy of the king returned, having searched in vain for the people of the Lord.
And now behold, the forces of the king were small, having been reduced, and there began to be a division among the remainder of the people.
And the lesser part began to abreathe out threatenings against the king, and there began to be a great contention among them.
And now there was a man among them whose name was Gideon, and he being a strong man and an enemy to the king, therefore he drew his sword, and swore in his wrath that he would slay the king.
And it came to pass that he fought with the king; and when the king saw that he was about to overpower him, he fled and ran and got upon the atower which was near the temple.
And Gideon pursued after him and was about to get upon the tower to slay the king, and the king cast his eyes round about towards the land of aShemlon, and behold, the army of the Lamanites were within the borders of the land.
And now the king cried out in the anguish of his soul, saying: Gideon, aspare me, for the Lamanites are upon us, and they will destroy us; yea, they will destroy my people.
And now the king was not so much concerned about his people as he was about his aown life; nevertheless, Gideon did spare his life.
And the king commanded the people that they should flee before the Lamanites, and he himself did go before them, and they did flee into the wilderness, with their women and their children.
And it came to pass that the Lamanites did pursue them, and did overtake them, and began to slay them.
Now it came to pass that the king commanded them that all the men should aleave their wives and their children, and flee before the Lamanites.
Now there were many that would not leave them, but had rather stay and perish with them.
And the rest left their wives and their children and fled.
And it came to pass that those who tarried with their wives and their children caused that their fair daughters should stand forth and plead with the Lamanites that they would not slay them.
And it came to pass that the Lamanites had compassion on them, for they were charmed with the beauty of their women.
Therefore the Lamanites did spare their lives, and took them captives and carried them back to the land of Nephi, and granted unto them that they might possess the land, under the conditions that they would deliver up king Noah into the hands of the Lamanites, and deliver up their property, even aone half of all they possessed, one half of their gold, and their silver, and all their precious things, and thus they should pay tribute to the king of the Lamanites from year to year.
And now there was one of the sons of the king among those that were taken captive, whose name was aLimhi.
And now Limhi was desirous that his father should not be destroyed; nevertheless, Limhi was not ignorant of the iniquities of his father, he himself being a just man.
And it came to pass that Gideon sent men into the wilderness secretly, to search for the king and those that were with him.
And it came to pass that they met the people in the wilderness, all save the king and his priests.
Now they had sworn in their hearts that they would return to the land of Nephi, and if their awives and their children were slain, and also those that had tarried with them, that they would seek revenge, and also perish with them.
And the king commanded them that they should not return; and they were angry with the king, and caused that he should suffer, even unto adeath by fire.
And they were about to take the priests also and aput them to death, and they fled before them.
And it came to pass that they were about to return to the land of Nephi, and they met the men of Gideon.
And the men of Gideon told them of all that had happened to their wives and their children; and that the Lamanites had granted unto them that they might possess the land by paying a tribute to the Lamanites of one half of all they possessed.
And the people told the men of aGideon that they had slain the king, and his bpriests had fled from them farther into the wilderness.
And it came to pass that after they had ended the ceremony, that they returned to the land of Nephi, rejoicing, because their wives and their children were not slain; and they told Gideon what they had done to the king.
And it came to pass that the king of the Lamanites made an aoath unto them, that his people should not slay them.
And also Limhi, being the son of the king, having the kingdom conferred upon him aby the people, made boath unto the king of the Lamanites that his people should pay ctribute unto him, even one half of all they possessed.
And it came to pass that Limhi began to establish the kingdom and to establish apeace among his people.
And the king of the Lamanites set aguards round about the land, that he might bkeep the people of Limhi in the land, that they might not depart into the wilderness; and he did support his guards out of the tribute which he did receive from the Nephites.
And now king Limhi did have continual peace in his kingdom for the space of two years, that the Lamanites did not molest them nor seek to destroy them.
 Now there was a place in aShemlon where the daughters of the Lamanites did gather themselves together to sing, and to bdance, and to make themselves merry.
And it came to pass that there was one day a small number of them gathered together to sing and to dance.
And now the priests of king Noah, being ashamed to return to the city of Nephi, yea, and also fearing that the people would aslay them, therefore they durst not return to their wives and their bchildren.
And having tarried in the wilderness, and having discovered the daughters of the Lamanites, they laid and watched them; And when there were but few of them gathered together to dance, they came forth out of their secret places and took them and carried them into the wilderness; yea, twenty and four of the adaughters of the Lamanites they carried into the wilderness.
And it came to pass that when the Lamanites found that their daughters had been missing, they were angry with the people of Limhi, for they thought it was the people of Limhi.
Therefore they sent their armies forth; yea, even the king himself went before his people; and they went up to the land of Nephi to destroy the people of Limhi.
And now Limhi had discovered them from the atower, even all their preparations for war did he discover; therefore he gathered his people together, and laid wait for them in the fields and in the forests.
And it came to pass that when the Lamanites had come up, that the people of Limhi began to fall upon them from their waiting places, and began to slay them.
And it came to pass that the battle became exceedingly sore, for they fought like lions for their prey.
And it came to pass that the people of Limhi began to drive the Lamanites before them; yet they were not half so numerous as the Lamanites.
But they afought for their lives, and for their bwives, and for their children; therefore they exerted themselves and like dragons did they fight.
And it came to pass that they found the king of the Lamanites among the number of their dead; yet he was not dead, having been wounded and left upon the ground, so speedy was the flight of his people.
And they took him and bound up his wounds, and brought him before Limhi, and said: Behold, here is the king of the Lamanites; he having received a wound has fallen among their dead, and they have left him; and behold, we have brought him before you; and now let us slay him.
But Limhi said unto them: Ye shall not slay him, but bring him hither that I may see him.
And they brought him.
And Limhi said unto him: What cause have ye to come up to war against my people?
Behold, my people have not broken the aoath that I made unto you; therefore, why should ye break the oath which ye made unto my people?
And now the king said: I have broken the oath because thy people did carry away the daughters of my people; therefore, in my anger I did cause my people to come up to war against thy people.
And now Limhi had heard nothing concerning this matter; therefore he said: I will search among my people and whosoever has done this thing shall perish.
Therefore he caused a search to be made among his people.
Now when aGideon had heard these things, he being the king’s captain, he went forth and said unto the king: I pray thee forbear, and do not search this people, and lay not this thing to their charge.
For do ye not remember the priests of thy father, whom this people sought to destroy?
And are they not in the wilderness?
And are not they the ones who have stolen the daughters of the Lamanites?
And now, behold, and tell the king of these things, that he may tell his people that they may be pacified towards us; for behold they are already preparing to come against us; and behold also there are but few of us.
And behold, they come with their numerous hosts; and except the king doth pacify them towards us we must perish.
For are not the words of Abinadi afulfilled, which he prophesied against us—and all this because we would not hearken unto the words of the Lord, and turn from our iniquities?
And now let us pacify the king, and we fulfil the aoath which we have made unto him; for it is better that we should be in bondage than that we should lose our blives; therefore, let us put a stop to the shedding of so much blood.
And now Limhi told the king all the things concerning his father, and the apriests that had fled into the wilderness, and attributed the carrying away of their daughters to them.
And it came to pass that the king was pacified towards his people; and he said unto them: Let us go forth to meet my people, without arms; and I swear unto you with an aoath that my people shall not slay thy people.
And it came to pass that they followed the king, and went forth without arms to meet the Lamanites.
And it came to pass that they did meet the Lamanites; and the king of the Lamanites did bow himself down before them, and did plead in behalf of the people of Limhi.
And when the Lamanites saw the people of Limhi, that they were without arms, they had acompassion on them and were pacified towards them, and returned with their king in peace to their own land.
 And now it came to pass that Ammon and king Limhi began to consult with the people how they should adeliver themselves out of bondage; and even they did cause that all the people should gather themselves together; and this they did that they might have the voice of the people concerning the matter.
And it came to pass that they could find no way to deliver themselves out of bondage, except it were to take their women and children, and their flocks, and their herds, and their tents, and depart into the wilderness; for the Lamanites being so numerous, it was impossible for the people of Limhi to contend with them, thinking to deliver themselves out of bondage by the sword.
Now it came to pass that aGideon went forth and stood before the king, and said unto him: Now O king, thou hast hitherto hearkened unto my words many times when we have been contending with our brethren, the Lamanites.
And now O king, if thou hast not found me to be an unprofitable servant, or if thou hast hitherto listened to my words in any degree, and they have been of service to thee, even so I desire that thou wouldst listen to my words at this time, and I will be thy servant and deliver this people out of bondage.
And the king granted unto him that he might speak.
And Gideon said unto him: Behold the back pass, through the back wall, on the back side of the city.
The Lamanites, or the aguards of the Lamanites, by night are bdrunken; therefore let us send a proclamation among all this people that they gather together their flocks and herds, that they may drive them into the wilderness by night.
And I will go according to thy command and pay the last atribute of wine to the Lamanites, and they will be bdrunken; and we will pass through the secret pass on the left of their camp when they are drunken and asleep.
Thus we will depart with our women and our children, our flocks, and our herds into the wilderness; and we will travel around the land of aShilom.
And it came to pass that the king hearkened unto the words of Gideon.
And king Limhi caused that his people should gather their flocks together; and he sent the tribute of wine to the Lamanites; and he also sent more wine, as a present unto them; and they did drink freely of the wine which king Limhi did send unto them.
And it came to pass that the people of king Limhi did adepart by night into the wilderness with their flocks and their herds, and they went round about the land of bShilom in the wilderness, and bent their course towards the land of Zarahemla, being led by Ammon and his brethren.
And they had taken all their gold, and silver, and their precious things, which they could carry, and also their provisions with them, into the wilderness; and they pursued their journey.
And after being many days in the wilderness they aarrived in the land of Zarahemla, and joined Mosiah’s people, and became his subjects.
And it came to pass that Mosiah areceived them with joy; and he also received their brecords, and also the crecords which had been found by the people of Limhi.
And now it came to pass when the Lamanites had found that the people of Limhi had departed out of the land by night, that they sent an aarmy into the wilderness to pursue them; And after they had pursued them two days, they could no longer follow their tracks; therefore they were lost in the wilderness.
 Now Alma, having been awarned of the Lord that the armies of king Noah would come upon them, and having made it known to his people, therefore they gathered together their flocks, and took of their grain, and bdeparted into the wilderness before the armies of king Noah.
And the Lord did strengthen them, that the people of king Noah could not overtake them to destroy them.
And they fled aeight days’ journey into the wilderness.
And they came to a land, yea, even a very beautiful and pleasant land, a land of pure water.
And they pitched their tents, and began to till the ground, and began to build buildings; yea, they were aindustrious, and did labor exceedingly.
And the people were desirous that Alma should be their aking, for he was beloved by his people.
But he said unto them: Behold, it is not expedient that we should have a king; for thus saith the Lord: Ye shall anot esteem one flesh above another, or one man shall not think himself above another; therefore I say unto you it is not expedient that ye should have a king.
Nevertheless, if it awere possible that ye could always have just men to be your bkings it would be well for you to have a king.
But remember the ainiquity of king Noah and his bpriests; and I myself was ccaught in a snare, and did many things which were abominable in the sight of the Lord, which caused me sore drepentance; Nevertheless, aafter much btribulation, the Lord did hear my cries, and did answer my prayers, and has made me an cinstrument in his hands in bringing dso many of you to a knowledge of his truth.
Nevertheless, in this I do not glory, for I am unworthy to glory of myself.
And now I say unto you, ye have been aoppressed by king Noah, and have been in bondage to him and his priests, and have been bbrought into iniquity by them; therefore ye were bound with the cbands of iniquity.
And now as ye have been delivered by the power of God out of these bonds; yea, even out of the ahands of king Noah and his people, and also from the bbonds of iniquity, even so I desire that ye should cstand fast in this dliberty wherewith ye have been made free, and that ye trust eno man to be a king over you.
And also trust no one to be your ateacher nor your minister, except he be a man of God, walking in his ways and keeping his commandments.
Thus did Alma teach his people, that every man should alove his bneighbor cas himself, that there should be no dcontention among them.
And now, Alma was their ahigh priest, he being the founder of their church.
And it came to pass that none received aauthority to preach or to teach except it were by him from God.
Therefore he bconsecrated all their priests and all their teachers; and none were consecrated except they were just men.
Therefore they did watch over their people, and did anourish them with things pertaining to righteousness.
And it came to pass that they began to prosper exceedingly in the land; and they called the land aHelam.
And it came to pass that they did multiply and prosper exceedingly in the land of Helam; and they built a city, which they called the city of Helam.
Nevertheless the Lord seeth fit to achasten his people; yea, he trieth their bpatience and their faith.
Nevertheless—whosoever putteth his atrust in him the same shall be blifted up at the last day.
Yea, and thus it was with this people.
For behold, I will show unto you that they were brought into abondage, and none could deliver them but the Lord their God, yea, even the God of Abraham and Isaac and of Jacob.
And it came to pass that he did deliver them, and he did show forth his mighty power unto them, and great were their rejoicings.
For behold, it came to pass that while they were in the land of Helam, yea, in the city of Helam, while tilling the land round about, behold an army of the Lamanites was in the borders of the land.
Now it came to pass that the brethren of Alma fled from their fields, and gathered themselves together in the city of Helam; and they were much frightened because of the appearance of the Lamanites.
But Alma went forth and stood among them, and exhorted them that they should not be frightened, but that they should remember the Lord their God and he would deliver them.
Therefore they hushed their fears, and began to cry unto the Lord that he would soften the hearts of the Lamanites, that they would spare them, and their wives, and their children.
And it came to pass that the Lord did soften the hearts of the Lamanites.
And Alma and his brethren went forth and delivered themselves up into their hands; and the Lamanites took possession of the land of Helam.
Now the aarmies of the Lamanites, which had followed after the people of king Limhi, had been lost in the wilderness for many days.
And behold, they had found those priests of king Noah, in a place which they called aAmulon; and they had begun to possess the land of Amulon and had begun to till the ground.
Now the name of the leader of those priests was aAmulon.
And it came to pass that Amulon did plead with the Lamanites; and he also sent forth their wives, who were the adaughters of the Lamanites, to plead with their brethren, that they should not destroy their husbands.
And the Lamanites had acompassion on Amulon and his brethren, and did not destroy them, because of their wives.
And aAmulon and his brethren did join the Lamanites, and they were traveling in the wilderness in search of the land of Nephi when they discovered the land of Helam, which was possessed by Alma and his brethren.
And it came to pass that the Lamanites promised unto Alma and his brethren, that if they would show them the away which led to the land of Nephi that they would grant unto them their lives and their liberty.
But after Alma had shown them the way that led to the land of Nephi the Lamanites would not keep their promise; but they set aguards round about the land of Helam, over Alma and his brethren.
And the remainder of them went to the land of Nephi; and a part of them returned to the land of Helam, and also brought with them the wives and the children of the guards who had been left in the land.
And the king of the Lamanites had granted unto Amulon that he should be a king and a ruler over his people, who were in the land of Helam; nevertheless he should have no power to do anything contrary to the will of the king of the Lamanites.
 And it came to pass that Amulon did gain favor in the eyes of the king of the Lamanites; therefore, the king of the Lamanites granted unto him and his brethren that they should be appointed teachers over his people, yea, even over the people who were in the land of Shemlon, and in the land of Shilom, and in the aland of Amulon.
For the Lamanites had taken possession of all these lands; therefore, the king of the Lamanites had appointed kings over all these lands.
And now the name of the king of the Lamanites was aLaman, being called after the name of his father; and therefore he was called king Laman.
And he was king over a numerous people.
And he appointed ateachers of the bbrethren of Amulon in every land which was possessed by his people; and thus the clanguage of Nephi began to be taught among all the people of the Lamanites.
And they were a people friendly one with another; nevertheless they knew not God; neither did the brethren of Amulon teach them anything concerning the Lord their God, neither the law of Moses; nor did they teach them the words of Abinadi; But they taught them that they should keep their record, and that they might write one to another.
And thus the Lamanites began to increase in riches, and began to atrade one with another and wax great, and began to be a cunning and a wise people, as to the wisdom of the world, yea, a very cunning people, delighting in all manner of wickedness and plunder, except it were among their own brethren.
And now it came to pass that aAmulon began to exercise bauthority over Alma and his brethren, and began to persecute him, and cause that his children should persecute their children.
For Amulon knew Alma, that he had been aone of the king’s priests, and that it was he that believed the words of Abinadi and was driven out before the king, and therefore he was wroth with him; for he was subject to king Laman, yet he exercised authority over them, and put btasks upon them, and put ctask-masters over them.
And it came to pass that so great were their afflictions that they began to cry mightily to God.
And Amulon commanded them that they should stop their cries; and he aput guards over them to watch them, that whosoever should be found calling upon God should be put to death.
And Alma and his people did not raise their voices to the Lord their God, but did pour out their ahearts to him; and he did know the bthoughts of their hearts.
And it acame to pass that the voice of the Lord came to them in their afflictions, saying: Lift up your heads and be of good comfort, for I know of the covenant which ye have made unto me; and I will covenant with my people and deliver them out of bondage.
And I will also ease the aburdens which are put upon your shoulders, that even you cannot feel them upon your backs, even while you are in bondage; and this will I do that ye may stand as bwitnesses for me hereafter, and that ye may know of a surety that I, the Lord God, do visit my people in their cafflictions.
And now it came to pass that the burdens which were laid upon Alma and his brethren were made light; yea, the Lord did astrengthen them that they could bear up their bburdens with ease, and they did submit cheerfully and with cpatience to all the will of the Lord.
And it came to pass that so great was their faith and their patience that the voice of the Lord came unto them again, saying: Be of good comfort, for on the morrow I will deliver you out of bondage.
And he said unto Alma: Thou shalt go before this people, and I will go awith thee and deliver this people out of bbondage.
Now it came to pass that Alma and his people in the night-time gathered their flocks together, and also of their grain; yea, even all the night-time were they gathering their flocks together.
And in the morning the Lord caused a adeep sleep to come upon the Lamanites, yea, and all their task-masters were in a profound sleep.
And Alma and his people departed into the wilderness; and when they had traveled all day they pitched their tents in a valley, and they called the valley Alma, because he led their way in the wilderness.
Yea, and in the valley of Alma they poured out their athanks to God because he had been merciful unto them, and eased their bburdens, and had delivered them out of bondage; for they were in bondage, and none could deliver them except it were the Lord their God.
And they gave athanks to God, yea, all their men and all their women and all their children that could speak lifted their voices in the praises of their God.
And now the Lord said unto Alma: Haste thee and get thou and this people out of this land, for the Lamanites have awakened and do pursue thee; therefore get thee out of this land, and I will stop the Lamanites in this valley that they come no further in pursuit of this people.
And it came to pass that they departed out of the valley, and took their journey into the wilderness.
And after they had been in the wilderness atwelve days they arrived in the land of Zarahemla; and king Mosiah did also breceive them with joy.
 And now king Mosiah caused that all the people should be gathered together.
Now there were not so many of the children of Nephi, or so many of those who were descendants of Nephi, as there were of the apeople of Zarahemla, who was a descendant of bMulek, and those who came with him into the wilderness.
And there were not so many of the people of Nephi and of the people of Zarahemla as there were of the Lamanites; yea, they were not half so numerous.
And now all the people of Nephi were assembled together, and also all the people of Zarahemla, and they were gathered together in two bodies.
And it came to pass that Mosiah did read, and caused to be read, the records of Zeniff to his people; yea, he read the records of the people of Zeniff, from the time they aleft the land of Zarahemla until they breturned again.
And he also read the account of Alma and his brethren, and all their afflictions, from the time they left the land of Zarahemla until the time they returned again.
And now, when Mosiah had made an end of reading the records, his people who tarried in the land were struck with wonder and amazement.
For they knew not what to think; for when they beheld those that had been delivered aout of bondage they were filled with exceedingly great joy.
And again, when they thought of their brethren who had been aslain by the Lamanites they were filled with sorrow, and even shed many tears of sorrow.
And again, when they thought of the immediate goodness of God, and his power in delivering Alma and his brethren out of the hands of the Lamanites and of abondage, they did raise their voices and give thanks to God.
And again, when they thought upon the Lamanites, who were their brethren, of their sinful and apolluted state, they were filled with bpain and anguish for the cwelfare of their souls.
And it came to pass that those who awere the children of Amulon and his brethren, who had taken to wife the bdaughters of the Lamanites, were displeased with the conduct of their fathers, and they would no longer be called by the names of their fathers, therefore they took upon themselves the name of Nephi, that they might be called the children of Nephi and be numbered among those who were ccalled Nephites.
And now all the people of Zarahemla were anumbered with the Nephites, and this because the kingdom had been conferred upon none but those who were descendants of Nephi.
And now it came to pass that when Mosiah had made an end of speaking and reading to the people, he desired that Alma should also speak to the people.
And Alma did speak unto them, when they were assembled together in large bodies, and he went from one body to another, preaching unto the people repentance and faith on the Lord.
And he did exhort the people of Limhi and his brethren, all those that had been delivered out of bondage, that they should remember that it was the Lord that did deliver them.
And it came to pass that after Alma had taught the people many things, and had made an end of speaking to them, that king Limhi was desirous that he might be baptized; and all his people were desirous that they might be baptized also.
Therefore, Alma did go forth into the water and did abaptize them; yea, he did baptize them after the manner he did his brethren in the bwaters of Mormon; yea, and as many as he did baptize did belong to the church of God; and this because of their belief on the words of Alma.
And it came to pass that king Mosiah granted unto Alma that he might establish achurches throughout all the land of Zarahemla; and gave him power to bordain cpriests and dteachers over every church.
Now this was done because there were so many people that they could not all be governed by one teacher; neither could they all hear the word of God in one assembly; Therefore they did aassemble themselves together in different bodies, being called churches; every church having their priests and their teachers, and every priest preaching the word according as it was delivered to him by the mouth of Alma.
And thus, notwithstanding there being many churches they were all one achurch, yea, even the church of God; for there was nothing preached in all the churches except it were repentance and faith in God.
And now there were seven churches in the land of Zarahemla.
And it came to pass that whosoever were desirous to take upon them the aname of Christ, or of God, they did join the churches of God; And they were called the apeople of God.
And the Lord did pour out his bSpirit upon them, and they were blessed, and prospered in the land.
 Now it came to pass that there were many of the rising generation that could not understand the awords of king Benjamin, being little children at the time he spake unto his people; and they did bnot believe the tradition of their fathers.
They did not believe what had been said concerning the resurrection of the dead, neither did they believe concerning the coming of Christ.
And now because of their aunbelief they could not bunderstand the word of God; and their hearts were hardened.
And they would not be baptized; neither would they join the achurch.
And they were a separate people as to their faith, and remained so ever after, even in their bcarnal and sinful state; for they would not call upon the Lord their God.
And now in the reign of Mosiah they were not half so numerous as the people of God; but because of the adissensions among the brethren they became more numerous.
For it came to pass that they did adeceive many with their bflattering words, who were in the church, and did cause them to commit many sins; therefore it became expedient that those who committed sin, that were in the church, should be cadmonished by the church.
And it came to pass that they were brought before the priests, and delivered up unto the apriests by the teachers; and the priests brought them before Alma, who was the bhigh priest.
Now king Mosiah had given Alma the aauthority over the bchurch.
And it came to pass that Alma did not know concerning them; but there were many awitnesses against them; yea, the people stood and testified of their iniquity in abundance.
Now there had not any such thing happened before in the church; therefore Alma was troubled in his spirit, and he caused that they should be brought before the king.
And he said unto the king: Behold, here are many whom we have brought before thee, who are accused of their brethren; yea, and they have been taken in divers iniquities.
And they do not repent of their iniquities; therefore we have brought them before thee, that thou mayest judge them according to their crimes.
But king Mosiah said unto Alma: Behold, I judge them not; therefore I adeliver them into thy hands to be judged.
And now the spirit of Alma was again troubled; and he went and inquired of the Lord what he should do concerning this matter, for he feared that he should do wrong in the sight of God.
And it came to pass that after he had poured out his whole soul to God, the avoice of the Lord came to him, saying: Blessed art thou, Alma, and blessed are they who were baptized in the awaters of Mormon.
Thou art blessed because of thy exceeding bfaith in the words alone of my servant Abinadi.
And blessed are they because of their exceeding faith in the words alone which thou hast spoken unto them.
And blessed art thou because thou hast established a achurch among this people; and they shall be established, and they shall be my people.
Yea, blessed is this people who are willing to bear my aname; for in my bname shall they be called; and they are mine.
And because thou hast inquired of me concerning the transgressor, thou art blessed.
Thou art my servant; and I covenant with thee that thou shalt have aeternal life; and thou shalt serve me and go forth in my name, and shalt gather together my sheep.
And he that will hear my voice shall be my asheep; and him shall ye receive into the church, and him will I also receive.
For behold, athis is my bchurch; whosoever is cbaptized shall be baptized unto repentance.
And whomsoever ye receive shall dbelieve in my name; and him will I freely eforgive.
For it is I that taketh upon me the asins of the world; for it is I that hath bcreated them; and it is I that granteth unto him that believeth unto the end a place at my right hand.
For behold, in my name are they called; and if they aknow me they shall come forth, and shall have a place eternally at my right hand.
And it shall come to pass that when the asecond trump shall sound then shall they that never bknew me come forth and shall stand before me.
And then shall they know that I am the Lord their God, that I am their Redeemer; but they would not be redeemed.
And then I will confess unto them that I never aknew them; and they shall bdepart into ceverlasting fire prepared for the devil and his angels.
Therefore I say unto you, that he that will not ahear my voice, the same shall ye not receive into my church, for him I will not receive at the last day.
Therefore I say unto you, Go; and whosoever transgresseth against me, him shall ye ajudge baccording to the sins which he has committed; and if he cconfess his sins before thee and me, and drepenteth in the sincerity of his heart, him shall ye eforgive, and I will forgive him also.
Yea, and aas often as my people brepent will I forgive them their trespasses against me.
And ye shall also aforgive one another your trespasses; for verily I say unto you, he that forgiveth not his bneighbor’s trespasses when he says that he repents, the same hath brought himself under condemnation.
Now I say unto you, Go; and whosoever will anot repent of his sins the same shall not be numbered among my people; and this shall be observed from this time forward.
And it came to pass when Alma had heard these words he awrote them down that he might have them, and that he might judge the people of that church according to the commandments of God.
And it came to pass that Alma went and judged those that had been taken in iniquity, according to the aword of the Lord.
And whosoever repented of their sins and did aconfess them, them he did number among the people of the church; And those that would not confess their sins and repent of their iniquity, the same were not numbered among the people of the church, and their names were ablotted out.
And it came to pass that Alma did regulate all the affairs of the church; and they began again to have peace and to prosper exceedingly in the affairs of the church, walking circumspectly before God, receiving many, and baptizing many.
And now all these things did Alma and his afellow laborers do who were over the church, bwalking in all diligence, teaching the word of God in all things, suffering all manner of afflictions, being persecuted by all those who did not belong to the church of God.
And they did admonish their brethren; and they were also aadmonished, every one by the word of God, according to his sins, or to the sins which he had committed, being commanded of God to bpray without ceasing, and to give cthanks in all things.
 Now it came to pass that after the asons of Mosiah had done all these things, they took a small number with them and returned to their father, the king, and desired of him that he would grant unto them that they might, with these whom they had bselected, go up to the land of cNephi that they might preach the things which they had heard, and that they might impart the word of God to their brethren, the Lamanites— aThat perhaps they might bring them to the knowledge of the Lord their God, and convince them of the iniquity of their fathers; and that perhaps they might cure them of their bhatred towards the Nephites, that they might also be brought to rejoice in the Lord their God, that they might become friendly to one another, and that there should be no more contentions in all the land which the Lord their God had given them.
Now they were desirous that salvation should be declared to every creature, for they could not abear that any human bsoul should cperish; yea, even the very thoughts that any soul should endure dendless torment did cause them to quake and etremble.
And thus did the Spirit of the Lord work upon them, for they were the very avilest of sinners.
And the Lord saw fit in his infinite bmercy to spare them; nevertheless they suffered much anguish of soul because of their iniquities, suffering much and fearing that they should be cast off forever.
And it came to pass that they did plead with their father many days that they might go up to the land of Nephi.
And king Mosiah went and ainquired of the Lord if he should let his sons go up among the Lamanites to preach the word.
And the Lord said unto Mosiah: Let them go up, for many shall believe on their words, and they shall have eternal life; and I will adeliver thy sons out of the hands of the Lamanites.
And it came to pass that Mosiah granted that they might go and do according to their request.
And they atook their journey into the wilderness to go up to preach the word among the Lamanites; and I shall give an baccount of their proceedings hereafter.
Now king Mosiah had no one to confer the kingdom upon, for there was not any of his sons who awould accept of the kingdom.
Therefore he took the records which were engraven on the plates of abrass, and also the plates of bNephi, and all the things which he had kept and preserved according to the commandments of God, after having translated and caused to be written the records which were on the cplates of gold which had been found by the people of Limhi, which were delivered to him by the hand of Limhi; And this he did because of the great anxiety of his people; for they were desirous beyond measure to know concerning those people awho had been destroyed.
And now he translated them by the means of those two astones which were fastened into the two rims of a bow.
Now these things were prepared from the beginning, and were handed down from generation to generation, for the purpose of interpreting languages; And they have been kept and preserved by the hand of the Lord, that he should discover to every creature who should possess the land the iniquities and abominations of his people; And whosoever has these things is called aseer, after the manner of old times.
Now after Mosiah had finished atranslating these brecords, behold, it gave an account of the people who were cdestroyed, from the time that they were destroyed back to the building of the dgreat tower, at the time the Lord econfounded the language of the people and they were scattered abroad upon the face of all the earth, yea, and even from that time back until the creation of Adam.
Now this account did cause the people of Mosiah to mourn exceedingly, yea, they were filled with sorrow; nevertheless it gave them much knowledge, in the which they did rejoice.
And this account shall be awritten hereafter; for behold, it is expedient that all people should know the things which are written in this account.
And now, as I said unto you, that after king Mosiah had done these things, he took the plates of abrass, and all the things which he had kept, and bconferred them upon Alma, who was the son of Alma; yea, all the records, and also the cinterpreters, and conferred them upon him, and commanded him that he should keep and dpreserve them, and also keep a record of the people, handing them down from one generation to another, even as they had been handed down from the time that Lehi left Jerusalem.
 And now, it came to pass that when king Benjamin had made an end of speaking the words which had been delivered unto him by the aangel of the Lord, that he cast his eyes round about on the multitude, and behold they had bfallen to the earth, for the cfear of the Lord had come upon them.
And they had aviewed themselves in their own bcarnal state, even cless than the dust of the earth.
And they all cried aloud with one voice, saying: O have mercy, and apply the datoning blood of Christ that we may receive forgiveness of our sins, and our hearts may be epurified; for we believe in Jesus Christ, the Son of God, who fcreated heaven and earth, and all things; who shall come down among the children of men.
And it came to pass that after they had spoken these words the Spirit of the Lord came upon them, and they were filled with joy, having received a aremission of their sins, and having peace of bconscience, because of the exceeding cfaith which they had in Jesus Christ who should come, according to the dwords which king Benjamin had spoken unto them.
And king Benjamin again opened his mouth and began to speak unto them, saying: My friends and my brethren, my kindred and my people, I would again call your attention, that ye may hear and understand the remainder of my words which I shall speak unto you.
For behold, if the knowledge of the goodness of God at this time has awakened you to a sense of your anothingness, and your worthless and fallen state— I say unto you, if ye have come to a aknowledge of the goodness of God, and his matchless power, and his wisdom, and his patience, and his long-suffering towards the children of men; and also, the batonement which has been prepared from the cfoundation of the world, that thereby salvation might come to him that should put his dtrust in the Lord, and should be diligent in keeping his commandments, and continue in the faith even unto the end of his life, I mean the life of the mortal body— I say, that this is the man who receiveth salvation, through the atonement which was prepared from the foundation of the world for all mankind, which ever were since the afall of Adam, or who are, or who ever shall be, even unto the end of the world.
And this is the means whereby salvation cometh.
And there is anone other salvation save this which hath been spoken of; neither are there any conditions whereby man can be saved except the conditions which I have told you.
Believe in aGod; believe that he is, and that he bcreated all things, both in heaven and in earth; believe that he has all cwisdom, and all power, both in heaven and in earth; believe that man doth not dcomprehend all the things which the Lord can comprehend.
And again, believe that ye must arepent of your sins and forsake them, and humble yourselves before God; and ask in bsincerity of heart that he would cforgive you; and now, if you dbelieve all these things see that ye edo them.
And again I say unto you as I have said before, that as ye have come to the knowledge of the glory of God, or if ye have known of his goodness and have atasted of his love, and have received a bremission of your sins, which causeth such exceedingly great joy in your souls, even so I would that ye should remember, and always retain in remembrance, the greatness of God, and your own cnothingness, and his dgoodness and long-suffering towards you, unworthy creatures, and humble yourselves even in the depths of ehumility, fcalling on the name of the Lord daily, and standing gsteadfastly in the faith of that which is to come, which was spoken by the mouth of the angel.
And behold, I say unto you that if ye do this ye shall always rejoice, and be filled with the alove of God, and always bretain a remission of your sins; and ye shall grow in the cknowledge of the glory of him that created you, or in the knowledge of that which is just and true.
And ye will not have a amind to injure one another, but to live bpeaceably, and to render to every man according to that which is his due.
And ye will not suffer your achildren that they go hungry, or naked; neither will ye bsuffer that they transgress the laws of God, and fight and cquarrel one with another, and serve the devil, who is the master of sin, or who is the devil spirit which hath been spoken of by our fathers, he being an enemy to all righteousness.
But ye will ateach them to bwalk in the ways of truth and csoberness; ye will teach them to dlove one another, and to serve one another.
And also, ye yourselves will asuccor those that stand in need of your succor; ye will administer of your substance unto him that standeth in need; and ye will not suffer that the bbeggar putteth up his petition to you in vain, and turn him out to perish.
Perhaps thou shalt asay: The man has brought upon himself his misery; therefore I will stay my hand, and will not give unto him of my food, nor impart unto him of my substance that he may not suffer, for his punishments are just— But I say unto you, O man, whosoever doeth this the same hath great cause to repent; and except he repenteth of that which he hath done he perisheth forever, and hath no interest in the kingdom of God.
For behold, are we not all abeggars?
Do we not all depend upon the same Being, even God, for all the substance which we have, for both food and raiment, and for gold, and for silver, and for all the riches which we have of every kind?
And behold, even at this time, ye have been calling on his name, and begging for a aremission of your sins.
And has he suffered that ye have begged in vain?
Nay; he has poured out his bSpirit upon you, and has caused that your hearts should be filled with cjoy, and has caused that your mouths should be stopped that ye could not find utterance, so exceedingly great was your joy.
And now, if God, who has created you, on whom you are dependent for your lives and for all that ye have and are, doth grant unto you whatsoever ye ask that is right, in faith, believing that ye shall receive, O then, how ye ought to aimpart of the substance that ye have one to another.
And if ye ajudge the man who putteth up his petition to you for your substance that he perish not, and condemn him, how much more just will be your bcondemnation for withholding your substance, which doth not belong to you but to God, to whom also your life cbelongeth; and yet ye put up no petition, nor repent of the thing which thou hast done.
I say unto you, wo be unto that man, for his substance shall perish with him; and now, I say these things unto those who are arich as pertaining to the things of this world.
And again, I say unto the poor, ye who have not and yet have sufficient, that ye remain from day to day; I mean all you who deny the beggar, because ye have not; I would that ye say in your hearts that: I agive not because I bhave not, but if I had I would cgive.
And now, if ye say this in your hearts ye remain guiltless, otherwise ye are acondemned; and your condemnation is just for ye covet that which ye have not received.
And now, for the sake of these things which I have spoken unto you—that is, for the sake of retaining a remission of your sins from day to day, that ye may awalk guiltless before God—I would that ye should bimpart of your substance to the cpoor, every man according to that which he hath, such as dfeeding the hungry, clothing the naked, visiting the sick and administering to their relief, both spiritually and temporally, according to their wants.
And see that all these things are done in wisdom and aorder; for it is not requisite that a man should run bfaster than he has strength.
And again, it is expedient that he should be diligent, that thereby he might win the prize; therefore, all things must be done in order.
And I would that ye should remember, that whosoever among you aborroweth of his neighbor should return the thing that he borroweth, according as he doth agree, or else thou shalt commit sin; and perhaps thou shalt cause thy neighbor to commit sin also.
And finally, I cannot tell you all the things whereby ye may commit sin; for there are divers ways and means, even so many that I cannot number them.
But this much I can tell you, that if ye do not awatch yourselves, and your bthoughts, and your cwords, and your deeds, and observe the commandments of God, and dcontinue in the faith of what ye have heard concerning the coming of our Lord, even unto the end of your lives, ye must perish.
And now, O man, remember, and perish not.
 And now, it came to pass that when king Benjamin had thus spoken to his people, he sent among them, desiring to know of his people if they abelieved the words which he had spoken unto them.
And they all cried with one voice, saying: Yea, we believe all the words which thou hast spoken unto us; and also, we know of their surety and truth, because of the Spirit of the Lord Omnipotent, which has wrought a mighty achange in us, or in our hearts, that we have no more disposition to do bevil, but to do good continually.
And we, ourselves, also, through the infinite agoodness of God, and the manifestations of his Spirit, have great views of that which is to come; and were it expedient, we could prophesy of all things.
And it is the faith which we have had on the things which our king has spoken unto us that has brought us to this great knowledge, whereby we do rejoice with such exceedingly great joy.
And we are willing to enter into a acovenant with our God to do his will, and to be obedient to his commandments in all things that he shall command us, all the remainder of our days, that we may not bring upon ourselves a bnever-ending torment, as has been spoken by the cangel, that we may not drink out of the cup of the wrath of God.
And now, these are the words which king Benjamin desired of them; and therefore he said unto them: Ye have spoken the words that I desired; and the covenant which ye have made is a righteous covenant.
And now, because of the covenant which ye have made ye shall be called the achildren of Christ, his sons, and his daughters; for behold, this day he hath spiritually begotten you; for ye say that your hearts are bchanged through faith on his name; therefore, ye are cborn of him and have become his dsons and his daughters.
And under this head ye are made afree, and there is bno other head whereby ye can be made free.
There is no other cname given whereby salvation cometh; therefore, I would that ye should dtake upon you the name of Christ, all you that have entered into the covenant with God that ye should be obedient unto the end of your lives.
And it shall come to pass that whosoever doeth this shall be found at the right hand of God, for he shall know the name by which he is called; for he shall be called by the name of Christ.
And now it shall come to pass, that whosoever shall not take upon him the name of Christ must be called by some aother name; therefore, he findeth himself on the bleft hand of God.
And I would that ye should remember also, that this is the aname that I said I should give unto you that never should be blotted out, except it be through transgression; therefore, take heed that ye do not transgress, that the name be not blotted out of your hearts.
I say unto you, I would that ye should remember to aretain the name written always in your hearts, that ye are not found on the left hand of God, but that ye hear and know the voice by which ye shall be called, and also, the name by which he shall call you.
For how aknoweth a man the master whom he has not served, and who is a stranger unto him, and is far from the thoughts and intents of his heart?
And again, doth a man take an ass which belongeth to his neighbor, and keep him?
I say unto you, Nay; he will not even suffer that he shall feed among his flocks, but will drive him away, and cast him out.
I say unto you, that even so shall it be among you if ye know not the name by which ye are called.
Therefore, I would that ye should be steadfast and immovable, always abounding in agood works, that Christ, the bLord God Omnipotent, may cseal you his, that you may be brought to heaven, that ye may have everlasting salvation and eternal life, through the wisdom, and power, and justice, and mercy of him who dcreated all things, in heaven and in earth, who is God above all.
Amen.
 And now, king Benjamin thought it was expedient, after having finished speaking to the people, that he should atake the names of all those who had entered into a covenant with God to keep his commandments.
And it came to pass that there was not one soul, except it were little children, but who had entered into the covenant and had taken upon them the name of Christ.
And again, it came to pass that when king Benjamin had made an end of all these things, and had consecrated his son aMosiah to be a ruler and a king over his people, and had given him all the charges concerning the kingdom, and also had bappointed cpriests to dteach the people, that thereby they might hear and know the commandments of God, and to stir them up in remembrance of the eoath which they had made, he dismissed the multitude, and they returned, every one, according to their ffamilies, to their own houses.
And Mosiah began to reign in his father’s stead.
And he began to reign in the thirtieth year of his age, making in the whole, about four hundred and seventy-six years from the atime that Lehi left Jerusalem.
And king Benjamin lived three years and he died.
And it came to pass that king Mosiah did awalk in the ways of the Lord, and did observe his judgments and his statutes, and did keep his commandments in all things whatsoever he commanded him.
And king Mosiah did cause his people that they should till the earth.
And he also, himself, did till the earth, that thereby he might anot become burdensome to his people, that he might do according to that which his father had done in all things.
And there was no contention among all his people for the space of three years.
 And it came to pass that after king Limhi had made an end of aspeaking to his people, for he spake many things unto them and only a few of them have I written in this book, he told his people all the things concerning their brethren who were in the land of Zarahemla.
And he caused that Ammon should stand up before the multitude, and rehearse unto them all that had happened unto their brethren from the time that aZeniff went up out of the land even until the time that he bhimself came up out of the land.
And he also rehearsed unto them the last words which king Benjamin had ataught them, and explained them to the people of king Limhi, so that they might understand all the words which he spake.
And it came to pass that after he had done all this, that king Limhi dismissed the multitude, and caused that they should return every one unto his own house.
And it came to pass that he caused that the aplates which contained the brecord of his people from the time that they left the cland of Zarahemla, should be brought before Ammon, that he might read them.
Now, as soon as Ammon had read the record, the king inquired of him to know if he could ainterpret languages, and Ammon told him that he could not.
And the king said unto him: Being grieved for the afflictions of my people, I caused that aforty and three of my people should take a journey into the wilderness, that thereby they might find the land of Zarahemla, that we might appeal unto our brethren to deliver us out of bondage.
And they were lost in the wilderness for the space of amany days, yet they were diligent, and found not the land of Zarahemla but returned to this land, having traveled in a land among many waters, having discovered a land which was covered with bbones of men, and of beasts, and was also covered with ruins of buildings of every kind, having discovered a land which had been peopled with a people who were as numerous as the hosts of Israel.
And for a testimony that the things that they had said are true they have brought atwenty-four plates which are filled with engravings, and they are of pure gold.
And behold, also, they have brought abreastplates, which are large, and they are of bbrass and of copper, and are perfectly sound.
And again, they have brought swords, the hilts thereof have perished, and the blades thereof were cankered with rust; and there is no one in the land that is able to interpret the language or the engravings that are on the plates.
Therefore I said unto thee: Canst thou translate?
And I say unto thee again: Knowest thou of any one that can translate?
For I am desirous that these records should be translated into our language; for, perhaps, they will give us a knowledge of a remnant of the people who have been destroyed, from whence these records came; or, perhaps, they will give us a knowledge of this very people who have been destroyed; and I am desirous to know the cause of their destruction.
Now Ammon said unto him: I can assuredly tell thee, O king, of a man that can atranslate the records; for he has wherewith that he can look, and translate all records that are of ancient date; and it is a gift from God.
And the things are called binterpreters, and no man can look in them except he be commanded, lest he should look for that he ought not and he should perish.
And whosoever is commanded to look in them, the same is called cseer.
And behold, the king of the people who are in the land of Zarahemla is the man that is commanded to do these things, and who has this high gift from God.
And the king said that a aseer is greater than a prophet.
And Ammon said that a seer is a revelator and a prophet also; and a gift which is greater can no man have, except he should possess the power of God, which no man can; yet a man may have great power given him from God.
But a seer can know of things which are past, and also of things which are to come, and by them shall all things be revealed, or, rather, shall secret things be made manifest, and hidden things shall come to light, and things which are not known shall be made known by them, and also things shall be made known by them which otherwise could not be known.
Thus God has provided a means that man, through faith, might work mighty miracles; therefore he becometh a great benefit to his fellow beings.
And now, when Ammon had made an end of speaking these words the king rejoiced exceedingly, and gave thanks to God, saying: Doubtless a agreat mystery is contained within these plates, and these interpreters were doubtless prepared for the purpose of unfolding all such mysteries to the children of men.
O how marvelous are the works of the Lord, and how long doth he suffer with his people; yea, and how ablind and impenetrable are the understandings of the children of men; for they will not seek wisdom, neither do they desire that bshe should rule over them!
Yea, they are as a wild flock which fleeth from the shepherd, and scattereth, and are driven, and are devoured by the beasts of the forest.
 aI, bZeniff, having been taught in all the language of the Nephites, and having had a knowledge of the land of cNephi, or of the land of our fathers’ first inheritance, and having been sent as a spy among the Lamanites that I might spy out their forces, that our army might come upon them and destroy them—but when I saw that which was good among them I was desirous that they should not be destroyed.
Therefore, I contended with my brethren in the wilderness, for I would that our ruler should make a treaty with them; but he being an austere and a blood-thirsty man commanded that I should be slain; but I was rescued by the shedding of much blood; for father fought against father, and brother against brother, until the greater number of our army was destroyed in the wilderness; and we returned, those of us that were spared, to the land of Zarahemla, to relate that tale to their wives and their children.
And yet, I being aover-zealous to inherit the land of our fathers, collected as many as were desirous to go up to possess the land, and started again on our bjourney into the wilderness to go up to the land; but we were smitten with famine and sore afflictions; for we were slow to remember the Lord our God.
Nevertheless, after many days’ wandering in the wilderness we pitched our tents in the place where our brethren were slain, which was near to the land of our fathers.
And it came to pass that I went again with four of my men into the city, in unto the king, that I might know of the disposition of the king, and that I might know if I might go in with my people and possess the land in peace.
And I went in unto the king, and he covenanted with me that I might possess the aland of Lehi-Nephi, and the land of Shilom.
And he also commanded that his people should depart out of the land, and I and my people went into the land that we might possess it.
And we began to build buildings, and to repair the walls of the city, yea, even the walls of the city of Lehi-Nephi, and the city of Shilom.
And we began to till the ground, yea, even with all manner of aseeds, with seeds of corn, and of wheat, and of barley, and with neas, and with sheum, and with seeds of all manner of fruits; and we did begin to multiply and prosper in the land.
Now it was the cunning and the craftiness of king aLaman, to bbring my people into bondage, that he yielded up the land that we might possess it.
Therefore it came to pass, that after we had dwelt in the land for the space of twelve years that king Laman began to grow uneasy, lest by any means my people should awax strong in the land, and that they could not overpower them and bring them into bondage.
Now they were a alazy and an bidolatrous people; therefore they were desirous to bring us into bondage, that they might glut themselves with the labors of our hands; yea, that they might feast themselves upon the flocks of our fields.
Therefore it came to pass that king Laman began to stir up his people that they should contend with my people; therefore there began to be wars and contentions in the land.
For, in the thirteenth year of my reign in the land of Nephi, away on the south of the land of aShilom, when my people were watering and bfeeding their flocks, and tilling their lands, a numerous host of Lamanites came upon them and began to slay them, and to take off their flocks, and the corn of their fields.
Yea, and it came to pass that they fled, all that were not overtaken, even into the city of Nephi, and did call upon me for protection.
And it came to pass that I did arm them with bows, and with arrows, with swords, and with cimeters, and with clubs, and with slings, and with all manner of weapons which we could invent, and I and my people did go forth against the Lamanites to battle.
Yea, in the astrength of the Lord did we go forth to battle against the Lamanites; for I and my people did cry mightily to the Lord that he would bdeliver us out of the hands of our enemies, for we were awakened to a remembrance of the deliverance of our fathers.
And God did ahear our cries and did answer our prayers; and we did go forth in his might; yea, we did go forth against the Lamanites, and in one day and a night we did slay three thousand and forty-three; we did slay them even until we had driven them out of our land.
And I, myself, with mine own hands, did help to bury their dead.
And behold, to our great sorrow and lamentation, two hundred and seventy-nine of our brethren were slain.
 Behold, it came to pass that I, Omni, being commanded by my father, Jarom, that I should write somewhat upon athese plates, to preserve our genealogy— Wherefore, in my days, I would that ye should know that I fought much with the sword to preserve my people, the Nephites, from falling into the hands of their enemies, the Lamanites.
But behold, I of myself aam a wicked man, and I have not kept the statutes and the commandments of the Lord as I ought to have done.
And it came to pass that two hundred and seventy and six years had passed away, and we had many seasons of peace; and we had many aseasons of serious war and bloodshed.
Yea, and in fine, two hundred and eighty and two years had passed away, and I had kept these plates according to the bcommandments of my cfathers; and I dconferred them upon my son Amaron.
And I make an end.
And now I, Amaron, write the things whatsoever I write, which are few, in the book of my father.
Behold, it came to pass that three hundred and twenty years had passed away, and the more wicked part of the Nephites were adestroyed.
For the Lord would not suffer, after he had led them out of the land of Jerusalem and kept and preserved them from falling into the hands of their enemies, yea, he would not suffer that the words should not be verified, which he spake unto our fathers, saying that: aInasmuch as ye will not keep my commandments ye shall not bprosper in the land.
Wherefore, the Lord did visit them in great judgment; nevertheless, he did spare the righteous that they should not perish, but did deliver them out of the hands of their enemies.
And it came to pass that I did deliver the plates unto my brother Chemish.
Now I, Chemish, write what few things I write, in the same book with my brother; for behold, I saw the last which he wrote, that he wrote it with his own hand; and he wrote it in the day that he delivered them unto me.
And after this manner we keep the arecords, for it is according to the commandments of our fathers.
And I make an end.
Behold, I, Abinadom, am the son of Chemish.
Behold, it came to pass that I saw much war and contention between my people, the Nephites, and the Lamanites; and I, with my own sword, have taken the lives of many of the Lamanites in the defence of my brethren.
And behold, the arecord of this people is engraven upon plates which is had by the bkings, according to the generations; and I know of no revelation save that which has been written, neither prophecy; wherefore, that which is sufficient is written.
And I make an end.
Behold, I am Amaleki, the son of Abinadom.
Behold, I will speak unto you somewhat concerning aMosiah, who was made king over the bland of Zarahemla; for behold, he being cwarned of the Lord that he should dflee out of the eland of fNephi, and as many as would hearken unto the voice of the Lord should also gdepart out of the land with him, into the wilderness— And it came to pass that he did according as the Lord had commanded him.
And they departed out of the land into the wilderness, as many as would hearken unto the voice of the Lord; and they were led by many preachings and prophesyings.
And they were admonished continually by the word of God; and they were led by the power of his aarm, through the wilderness until they came down into the land which is called the bland of Zarahemla.
And they discovered a apeople, who were called the people of Zarahemla.
Now, there was great rejoicing among the people of Zarahemla; and also Zarahemla did rejoice exceedingly, because the Lord had sent the people of Mosiah with the bplates of brass which contained the record of the Jews.
Behold, it came to pass that Mosiah discovered that the people of aZarahemla came out from Jerusalem at the time that bZedekiah, king of Judah, was carried away captive into Babylon.
And they ajourneyed in the wilderness, and were brought by the hand of the Lord across the great waters, into the land where Mosiah discovered them; and they had dwelt there from that time forth.
And at the time that Mosiah discovered them, they had become exceedingly numerous.
Nevertheless, they had had many wars and serious contentions, and had fallen by the sword from time to time; and their alanguage had become corrupted; and they had brought no brecords with them; and they denied the being of their Creator; and Mosiah, nor the people of Mosiah, could understand them.
But it came to pass that Mosiah caused that they should be taught in his alanguage.
And it came to pass that after they were taught in the language of Mosiah, Zarahemla gave a genealogy of his fathers, according to his memory; and they are written, but bnot in these plates.
And it came to pass that the people of Zarahemla, and of Mosiah, did aunite together; and bMosiah was appointed to be their king.
And it came to pass in the days of Mosiah, there was a large astone brought unto him with engravings on it; and he did binterpret the engravings by the gift and power of God.
And they gave an account of one aCoriantumr, and the slain of his people.
And Coriantumr was discovered by the people of Zarahemla; and he dwelt with them for the space of nine moons.
It also spake a few words concerning his fathers.
And his first parents came out from the atower, at the time the Lord bconfounded the language of the people; and the severity of the Lord fell upon them according to his judgments, which are just; and their cbones lay scattered in the land northward.
Behold, I, Amaleki, was born in the days of Mosiah; and I have lived to see his death; and aBenjamin, bhis son, reigneth in his stead.
And behold, I have seen, in the days of king Benjamin, a serious war and much bloodshed between the Nephites and the Lamanites.
But behold, the Nephites did obtain much advantage over them; yea, insomuch that king Benjamin did drive them out of the land of Zarahemla.
And it came to pass that I began to be old; and, having no seed, and knowing king aBenjamin to be a just man before the Lord, wherefore, I shall bdeliver up cthese plates unto him, exhorting all men to come unto God, the Holy One of Israel, and believe in prophesying, and in revelations, and in the ministering of angels, and in the gift of speaking with tongues, and in the gift of interpreting languages, and in all things which are dgood; for there is nothing which is good save it comes from the Lord: and that which is evil cometh from the devil.
And now, my beloved brethren, I would that ye should acome unto Christ, who is the Holy One of Israel, and partake of his salvation, and the power of his redemption.
Yea, come unto him, and boffer your whole souls as an coffering unto him, and continue in dfasting and praying, and endure to the end; and as the Lord liveth ye will be saved.
And now I would speak somewhat concerning a certain anumber who went up into the wilderness to breturn to the cland of Nephi; for there was a large number who were desirous to possess the land of their inheritance.
Wherefore, they went up into the wilderness.
And their leader being a strong and mighty man, and a stiffnecked man, wherefore he caused a contention among them; and they were aall slain, save fifty, in the wilderness, and they returned again to the land of Zarahemla.
And it came to pass that they also took others to a considerable number, and took their journey again into the wilderness.
And I, Amaleki, had a brother, who also went with them; and I have not since known concerning them.
And I am about to lie down in my grave; and athese plates are full.
And I make an end of my speaking.
Be it known unto all nations, kindreds, tongues, and people, unto whom this work shall come: That we, through the grace of God the Father, and our Lord Jesus Christ, have seen the plates which contain this record, which is a record of the people of Nephi, and also of the Lamanites, their brethren, and also of the people of Jared, who came from the tower of which hath been spoken.
And we also know that they have been translated by the gift and power of God, for his voice hath declared it unto us; wherefore we know of a surety that the work is true.
And we also testify that we have seen the engravings which are upon the plates; and they have been shown unto us by the power of God, and not of man.
And we declare with words of soberness, that an angel of God came down from heaven, and he brought and laid before our eyes, that we beheld and saw the plates, and the engravings thereon; and we know that it is by the grace of God the Father, and our Lord Jesus Christ, that we beheld and bear record that these things are true.
And it is marvelous in our eyes.
Nevertheless, the voice of the Lord commanded us that we should bear record of it; wherefore, to be obedient unto the commandments of God, we bear testimony of these things.
And we know that if we are faithful in Christ, we shall rid our garments of the blood of all men, and be found spotless before the judgment-seat of Christ, and shall dwell with him eternally in the heavens.
And the honor be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost, which is one God.
Amen.Oliver CowderyDavid WhitmerMartin Harris
 And now I, Mormon, being about to deliver up the arecord which I have been making into the hands of my son Moroni, behold I have witnessed almost all the destruction of my people, the Nephites.
And it is amany hundred years after the coming of Christ that I deliver these records into the hands of my son; and it supposeth me that he will witness the entire bdestruction of my people.
But may God grant that he may survive them, that he may write somewhat concerning them, and somewhat concerning Christ, that perhaps some day it may cprofit them.
And now, I speak somewhat concerning that which I have written; for after I had made an aabridgment from the bplates of Nephi, down to the reign of this king Benjamin, of whom Amaleki spake, I searched among the crecords which had been delivered into my hands, and I found these plates, which contained this small account of the prophets, from Jacob down to the reign of this king dBenjamin, and also many of the words of Nephi.
And the things which are upon these plates apleasing me, because of the prophecies of the coming of Christ; and my fathers knowing that many of them have been fulfilled; yea, and I also know that as many things as have been bprophesied concerning us down to this day have been fulfilled, and as many as go beyond this day must surely come to pass— Wherefore, I chose athese things, to finish my brecord upon them, which remainder of my record I shall take from the cplates of Nephi; and I cannot write the dhundredth part of the things of my people.
But behold, I shall take these plates, which contain these prophesyings and revelations, and put them with the remainder of my record, for they are choice unto me; and I know they will be choice unto my brethren.
And I do this for a awise bpurpose; for thus it whispereth me, according to the workings of the Spirit of the Lord which is in me.
And now, I do not know all things; but the Lord cknoweth all things which are to come; wherefore, he dworketh in me to do according to his ewill.
And my aprayer to God is concerning my brethren, that they may once again come to the knowledge of God, yea, the redemption of Christ; that they may once again be a bdelightsome people.
And now I, Mormon, proceed to finish out my record, which I take from the plates of Nephi; and I make it according to the knowledge and the aunderstanding which God has given me.
Wherefore, it came to pass that after Amaleki had adelivered up these plates into the hands of king Benjamin, he took them and put them with the bother plates, which contained records which had been handed down by the ckings, from generation to generation until the days of king Benjamin.
And they were handed down from king Benjamin, from generation to generation until they have fallen into amy hands.
And I, Mormon, pray to God that they may be preserved from this time henceforth.
And I know that they will be preserved; for there are great things written upon them, out of which bmy people and their brethren shall be cjudged at the great and last day, according to the word of God which is written.
And now, concerning this king Benjamin—he had somewhat of contentions among his own people.
And it came to pass also that the armies of the Lamanites came down out of the aland of Nephi, to battle against his people.
But behold, king Benjamin gathered together his armies, and he did stand against them; and he did fight with the strength of his own arm, with the bsword of Laban.
And in the astrength of the Lord they did contend against their enemies, until they had slain many thousands of the Lamanites.
And it came to pass that they did contend against the Lamanites until they had driven them out of all the lands of their binheritance.
And it came to pass that after there had been false aChrists, and their mouths had been shut, and they punished according to their crimes; And after there had been afalse prophets, and false preachers and teachers among the people, and all these having been punished according to their crimes; and after there having been much contention and many dissensions away bunto the Lamanites, behold, it came to pass that king Benjamin, with the assistance of the holy cprophets who were among his people— For behold, king Benjamin was a aholy man, and he did reign over his people in righteousness; and there were many holy men in the land, and they did speak the word of God with bpower and with authority; and they did use much csharpness because of the stiffneckedness of the people— Wherefore, with the help of these, king aBenjamin, by laboring with all the might of his body and the bfaculty of his whole soul, and also the prophets, did once more establish peace in the land.
 aHearken, O ye people of my bchurch, saith the voice of him who dwells on high, and whose ceyes are upon all men; yea, verily I say: Hearken ye people from afar; and ye that are upon the islands of the sea, listen together.
For verily the avoice of the Lord is unto all men, and there is none to bescape; and there is no eye that shall not see, neither cear that shall not hear, neither dheart that shall not be penetrated.
And the arebellious shall be bpierced with much csorrow; for their iniquities shall be dspoken upon the housetops, and their secret acts shall be revealed.
And the avoice of warning shall be unto all people, by the mouths of my disciples, whom I have bchosen in these clast days.
And they shall ago forth and none shall stay them, for I the Lord have commanded them.
Behold, this is mine aauthority, and the authority of my servants, and my preface unto the book of my bcommandments, which I have given them to cpublish unto you, O dinhabitants of the earth.
Wherefore, afear and btremble, O ye people, for what I the Lord have cdecreed in them shall be dfulfilled.
And verily I say unto you, that they who go forth, bearing these tidings unto the inhabitants of the earth, to them is power given to aseal both on earth and in heaven, the unbelieving and brebellious; Yea, verily, to seal them up unto the aday when the bwrath of God shall be poured out upon the cwicked without measure— Unto the aday when the Lord shall come to brecompense unto every man according to his cwork, and dmeasure to every man according to the measure which he has measured to his fellow man.
Wherefore the voice of the Lord is unto the ends of the earth, that all that will hear may hear: Prepare ye, aprepare ye for that which is to come, for the Lord is bnigh; And the aanger of the Lord is kindled, and his bsword is bathed in heaven, and it shall fall upon the inhabitants of the earth.
And the aarm of the Lord shall be revealed; and the bday cometh that they who will not chear the voice of the Lord, neither the voice of his dservants, neither give eheed to the words of the prophets and fapostles, shall be gcut off from among the people; For they have astrayed from mine bordinances, and have cbroken mine deverlasting covenant; They aseek not the Lord to establish his righteousness, but every man bwalketh in his cown dway, and after the eimage of his own god, whose image is in the likeness of the world, and whose substance is that of an idol, which waxeth fold and shall perish in gBabylon, even Babylon the great, which shall fall.
Wherefore, I the Lord, aknowing the calamity which should come upon the binhabitants of the earth, ccalled upon my dservant Joseph Smith, Jun., and espake unto him from heaven, and gave him fcommandments; And also gave commandments to others, that they should proclaim these things unto the world; and all this that it might be fulfilled, which was written by the prophets— The aweak things of the world shall come forth and break down the mighty and strong ones, that man bshould not counsel his fellow man, neither ctrust in the arm of flesh— But that every man might aspeak in the name of God the Lord, even the Savior of the world; That faith also might increase in the earth; That mine everlasting acovenant might be established; That the afulness of my bgospel might be cproclaimed by the dweak and the simple unto the ends of the world, and before ekings and frulers.
Behold, I am God and have spoken it; these acommandments are of me, and were given unto my servants in their weakness, after the manner of their blanguage, that they might come to cunderstanding.
And inasmuch as they aerred it might be made known; And inasmuch as they sought awisdom they might be binstructed; And inasmuch as they sinned they might be achastened, that they might brepent; And inasmuch as they were ahumble they might be made strong, and blessed from on high, and receive bknowledge from time to time.
And after having received the record of the Nephites, yea, even my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., might have power to atranslate through the bmercy of God, by the power of God, the cBook of Mormon.
And also those to whom these commandments were given, might have apower to lay the foundation of this bchurch, and to bring it forth out of obscurity and out of cdarkness, the only true and living dchurch upon the face of the whole earth, with which I, the Lord, am well epleased, fspeaking unto the church collectively and not individually— For I the Lord cannot look upon asin with the least degree of allowance; Nevertheless, he that arepents and does the bcommandments of the Lord shall be cforgiven; And he that arepents not, from him shall be btaken even the light which he has received; for my cSpirit shall not always dstrive with man, saith the Lord of Hosts.
And again, verily I say unto you, O inhabitants of the earth: I the Lord am willing to make these things aknown unto ball flesh; For I am no arespecter of persons, and will that all men shall know that the bday speedily cometh; the hour is not yet, but is nigh at hand, when cpeace shall be taken from the earth, and the ddevil shall have power over his own dominion.
And also the Lord shall have apower over his bsaints, and shall creign in their dmidst, and shall come down in ejudgment upon fIdumea, or the world.
aSearch these bcommandments, for they are true and cfaithful, and the prophecies and dpromises which are in them shall all be fulfilled.
What I the Lord have spoken, I have spoken, and I excuse not myself; and though the heavens and the earth pass away, my aword shall not pass away, but shall all be bfulfilled, whether by mine own cvoice or by the dvoice of my eservants, it is the fsame.
For behold, and lo, the Lord is God, and the aSpirit beareth record, and the record is true, and the btruth abideth forever and ever.
Amen.
 Verily, thus saith the Lord unto you, my friends Sidney and Joseph, your families are well; they are in amine hands, and I will do with them as seemeth me good; for in me there is all power.
Therefore, follow me, and listen to the counsel which I shall give unto you.
Behold, and lo, I have much people in this place, in the regions round about; and an effectual door shall be opened in the regions round about in this eastern land.
Therefore, I, the Lord, have suffered you to come unto this place; for thus it was expedient in me for the asalvation of souls.
Therefore, verily I say unto you, lift up your voices unto this people; aspeak the thoughts that I shall put into your hearts, and you shall not be bconfounded before men; For it shall be agiven you in the very hour, yea, in the very moment, what ye shall say.
But a commandment I give unto you, that ye shall declare whatsoever thing ye adeclare in my name, in solemnity of heart, in the spirit of meekness, in all things.
And I give unto you this promise, that inasmuch as ye do this the aHoly Ghost shall be shed forth in bearing record unto all things whatsoever ye shall say.
And it is expedient in me that you, my servant Sidney, should be a aspokesman unto this people; yea, verily, I will ordain you unto this calling, even to be a spokesman unto my servant Joseph.
And I will give unto him power to be mighty in atestimony.
And I will give unto thee power to be amighty in expounding all scriptures, that thou mayest be a spokesman unto him, and he shall be a brevelator unto thee, that thou mayest know the certainty of all things cpertaining to the things of my kingdom on the earth.
Therefore, continue your journey and let your hearts rejoice; for behold, and lo, I am with you even unto the end.
And now I give unto you a word concerning Zion.
aZion shall be bredeemed, although she is chastened for a little season.
Thy brethren, my servants Orson Hyde and John Gould, are in my hands; and inasmuch as they keep my commandments they shall be saved.
Therefore, let your hearts be comforted; for aall things shall work together for good to them that walk uprightly, and to the sanctification of the church.
For I will raise up unto myself a apure people, that will serve me in righteousness; And all that acall upon the name of the Lord, and keep his commandments, shall be saved.
Even so.
Amen.
 This day a general council of twenty-four high priests assembled at the house of Joseph Smith, Jun., by revelation, and proceeded to organize the ahigh council of the church of Christ, which was to consist of twelve high priests, and one or three presidents as the case might require.
The ahigh council was appointed by revelation for the purpose of bsettling important difficulties which might arise in the church, which could not be settled by the church or the cbishop’s council to the satisfaction of the parties.
Joseph Smith, Jun., Sidney Rigdon and Frederick G. Williams were acknowledged presidents by the voice of the council; and Joseph Smith, Sen., John Smith, Joseph Coe, John Johnson, Martin Harris, John S. Carter, Jared Carter, Oliver Cowdery, Samuel H. Smith, Orson Hyde, Sylvester Smith, and Luke Johnson, high priests, were chosen to be a standing council for the church, by the unanimous voice of the council.
The above-named councilors were then asked whether they accepted their appointments, and whether they would act in that office according to the alaw of heaven, to which they all answered that they accepted their appointments, and would fill their offices according to the grace of God bestowed upon them.
The number composing the council, who voted in the name and for the church in appointing the above-named councilors were forty-three, as follows: nine high priests, seventeen elders, four priests, and thirteen members.
Voted: that the high council cannot have power to act without seven of the above-named councilors, or their regularly appointed successors are present.
These seven shall have power to appoint other high priests, whom they may consider worthy and capable to act in the place of absent councilors.
Voted: that whenever any vacancy shall occur by the death, removal from office for transgression, or removal from the bounds of this church government, of any one of the above-named councilors, it shall be filled by the nomination of the apresident or presidents, and sanctioned by the voice of a general council of high priests, convened for that purpose, to act in the name of the church.
The president of the church, who is also the president of the council, is appointed by arevelation, and backnowledged in his administration by the voice of the church.
And it is according to the dignity of his office that he should preside over the council of the church; and it is his privilege to be assisted by two other presidents, appointed after the same manner that he himself was appointed.
And in case of the absence of one or both of those who are appointed to assist him, he has power to preside over the council without an assistant; and in case he himself is absent, the other presidents have power to preside in his stead, both or either of them.
Whenever a high council of the church of Christ is regularly organized, according to the foregoing pattern, it shall be the duty of the twelve councilors to cast lots by numbers, and thereby ascertain who of the twelve shall speak first, commencing with number one and so in succession to number twelve.
Whenever this council convenes to act upon any case, the twelve councilors shall consider whether it is a difficult one or not; if it is not, two only of the councilors shall speak upon it, according to the form above written.
But if it is thought to be difficult, four shall be appointed; and if more difficult, six; but in no case shall more than six be appointed to speak.
The accused, in all cases, has a right to one-half of the council, to prevent insult or ainjustice.
And the councilors appointed to speak before the council are to present the case, after the evidence is examined, in its true light before the council; and every man is to speak according to equity and ajustice.
Those councilors who adraw even numbers, that is, , , , , , and , are the individuals who are to stand up in behalf of the accused, and prevent insult and binjustice.
In all cases the accuser and the accused shall have a privilege of speaking for themselves before the council, after the evidences are aheard and the councilors who are appointed to speak on the case have finished their remarks.
After the evidences are heard, the councilors, accuser and accused have spoken, the president shall give a decision according to the understanding which he shall have of the case, and call upon the twelve councilors to asanction the same by their vote.
But should the remaining councilors, who have not spoken, or any one of them, after hearing the evidences and pleadings impartially, discover an aerror in the decision of the president, they can manifest it, and the case shall have a re-hearing.
And if, after a careful re-hearing, any additional light is shown upon the case, the decision shall be altered accordingly.
But in case no additional light is given, the first decision shall stand, the majority of the council having power to determine the same.
In case of difficulty respecting adoctrine or principle, if there is not a sufficiency written to make the case clear to the minds of the council, the president may inquire and obtain the bmind of the Lord by revelation.
The high priests, when abroad, have power to call and organize a council after the manner of the foregoing, to settle difficulties, when the parties or either of them shall request it.
And the said council of high priests shall have power to appoint one of their own number to preside over such council for the time being.
It shall be the duty of said council to atransmit, immediately, a copy of their proceedings, with a full statement of the testimony accompanying their decision, to the high council of the seat of the First Presidency of the Church.
Should the parties or either of them be dissatisfied with the decision of said council, they may appeal to the high council of the seat of the First Presidency of the Church, and have a re-hearing, which case shall there be conducted, according to the former pattern written, as though no such decision had been made.
This council of high priests abroad is only to be called on the most adifficult cases of church matters; and no common or ordinary case is to be sufficient to call such council.
The traveling or located high priests abroad have power to say whether it is necessary to call such a council or not.
There is a distinction between the ahigh council or traveling high priests abroad, and the traveling high council composed of the twelve bapostles, in their decisions.
From the decision of the former there can be an appeal; but from the decision of the latter there cannot.
The latter can only be called in question by the general authorities of the church in case of transgression.
Resolved: that the president or presidents of the seat of the First Presidency of the Church shall have power to determine whether any such case, as may be appealed, is justly entitled to a re-hearing, after examining the appeal and the evidences and statements accompanying it.
The twelve councilors then proceeded to cast lots or ballot, to ascertain who should speak first, and the following was the result, namely: , Oliver Cowdery; , Joseph Coe; , Samuel H. Smith; , Luke Johnson; , John S. Carter; , Sylvester Smith; , John Johnson; , Orson Hyde; , Jared Carter; , Joseph Smith, Sen.; , John Smith; , Martin Harris.After prayer the conference adjourned.Oliver Cowdery,Orson Hyde,Clerks
 Verily I say unto you, my friends, behold, I will give unto you a revelation and commandment, that you may know how to aact in the discharge of your duties concerning the salvation and bredemption of your brethren, who have been scattered on the land of Zion; Being adriven and smitten by the hands of mine enemies, on whom I will pour out my bwrath without measure in mine own time.
For I have suffered them thus far, that they might afill up the measure of their iniquities, that their cup might be full; And that those who call themselves after my name might be achastened for a little season with a sore and grievous chastisement, because they did not bhearken altogether unto the precepts and commandments which I gave unto them.
But verily I say unto you, that I have decreed a decree which my people shall arealize, inasmuch as they hearken from this very hour unto the bcounsel which I, the Lord their God, shall give unto them.
Behold they shall, for I have decreed it, begin to aprevail against mine benemies from this very hour.
And by ahearkening to observe all the words which I, the Lord their God, shall speak unto them, they shall never cease to prevail until the bkingdoms of the world are subdued under my feet, and the earth is cgiven unto the saints, to dpossess it forever and ever.
But inasmuch as they akeep not my commandments, and hearken not to observe all my words, the kingdoms of the world shall prevail against them.
For they were set to be a alight unto the world, and to be the bsaviors of men; And inasmuch as they are not the saviors of men, they are as asalt that has lost its savor, and is thenceforth good for nothing but to be cast out and trodden under foot of men.
But verily I say unto you, I have decreed that your brethren which have been scattered shall return to the alands of their inheritances, and shall bbuild up the waste places of Zion.
For after amuch tribulation, as I have said unto you in a former commandment, cometh the blessing.
Behold, this is the blessing which I have promised after your tribulations, and the tribulations of your brethren—your redemption, and the redemption of your brethren, even their restoration to the land of Zion, to be established, no more to be thrown down.
Nevertheless, if they pollute their inheritances they shall be thrown down; for I will not spare them if they pollute their inheritances.
Behold, I say unto you, the aredemption of Zion must needs come by power; Therefore, I will raise up unto my people a man, who shall alead them like as Moses led the children of Israel.
For ye are the children of Israel, and of the aseed of Abraham, and ye must needs be bled out of cbondage by power, and with a stretched-out arm.
And as your fathers were aled at the first, even so shall the redemption of Zion be.
Therefore, let not your hearts faint, for I say not unto you as I said unto your fathers: Mine aangel shall go up before you, but not my bpresence.
But I say unto you: Mine aangels shall go up before you, and also my bpresence, and in time ye shall cpossess the goodly land.
Verily, verily I say unto you, that my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., is the aman to whom I likened the servant to whom the Lord of the bvineyard spake in the parable which I have given unto you.
Therefore let my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., say unto the astrength of my house, my young men and the middle aged—Gather yourselves together unto the land of Zion, upon the land which I have bought with money that has been consecrated unto me.
And let all the churches send up wise men with their moneys, and apurchase lands even as I have commanded them.
And inasmuch as mine enemies come against you to drive you from my goodly aland, which I have consecrated to be the land of Zion, even from your own lands after these testimonies, which ye have brought before me against them, ye shall curse them; And whomsoever ye acurse, I will curse, and ye shall avenge me of mine enemies.
And my presence shall be with you even in aavenging me of mine enemies, unto the third and fourth generation of them that hate me.
Let no man be afraid to lay down his alife for my sake; for whoso blayeth down his life for my sake shall find it again.
And whoso is not willing to lay down his life for my sake is not my disciple.
It is my will that my servant Sidney Rigdon shall lift up his voice in the congregations in the eastern countries, in preparing the churches to keep the commandments which I have given unto them concerning the restoration and redemption of Zion.
It is my will that my servant Parley P. Pratt and my servant Lyman Wight should not return to the land of their brethren, until they have obtained companies to go up unto the land of Zion, by tens, or by twenties, or by fifties, or by an hundred, until they have obtained to the number of five hundred of the astrength of my house.
Behold this is my will; ask and ye shall receive; but men do anot always do my will.
Therefore, if you cannot obtain five hundred, seek diligently that peradventure you may obtain three hundred.
And if ye cannot obtain three hundred, seek diligently that peradventure ye may obtain one hundred.
But verily I say unto you, a commandment I give unto you, that ye shall not go up unto the land of Zion until you have obtained a hundred of the strength of my house, to go up with you unto the land of Zion.
Therefore, as I said unto you, ask and ye shall receive; pray earnestly that peradventure my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., may go with you, and preside in the midst of my people, and organize my kingdom upon the aconsecrated land, and establish the children of Zion upon the laws and commandments which have been and which shall be given unto you.
All victory and glory is brought to pass unto you through your adiligence, faithfulness, and bprayers of faith.
Let my servant Parley P. Pratt journey with my servant Joseph Smith, Jun.
Let my servant Lyman Wight journey with my servant Sidney Rigdon.
Let my servant Hyrum Smith journey with my servant Frederick G. Williams.
Let my servant Orson Hyde journey with my servant Orson Pratt, whithersoever my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., shall counsel them, in obtaining the fulfilment of these commandments which I have given unto you, and leave the residue in my hands.
Even so.
Amen.
 Verily I say unto you, my friends, I give unto you counsel, and a commandment, concerning all the aproperties which belong to the order which I commanded to be organized and established, to be a bunited order, and an everlasting order for the benefit of my cchurch, and for the salvation of men until I come— With promise immutable and unchangeable, that inasmuch as those whom I commanded were faithful they should be blessed with a amultiplicity of blessings; But inasmuch as they were not faithful they were nigh unto acursing.
Therefore, inasmuch as some of my servants have not kept the commandment, but have broken the covenant through acovetousness, and with feigned words, I have bcursed them with a very sore and grievous curse.
For I, the Lord, have decreed in my heart, that inasmuch as any man belonging to the order shall be found a transgressor, or, in other words, shall break the acovenant with which ye are bound, he shall be cursed in his life, and shall be trodden down by whom I will; For I, the Lord, am not to be amocked in these things— And all this that the innocent among you may not be condemned with the aunjust; and that the guilty among you may not escape; because I, the Lord, have promised unto you a bcrown of glory at my cright hand.
Therefore, inasmuch as you are found transgressors, you cannot escape my wrath in your lives.
Inasmuch as ye are acut off for transgression, ye cannot escape the bbuffetings of cSatan until the day of redemption.
And I now give unto you power from this very hour, that if any man among you, of the order, is found a transgressor and repenteth not of the evil, that ye shall adeliver him over unto the buffetings of Satan; and he shall not have power to bbring evil upon you.
It is wisdom in me; therefore, a commandment I give unto you, that ye shall organize yourselves and appoint every man his astewardship; That every man may give an account unto me of the stewardship which is appointed unto him.
For it is expedient that I, the Lord, should make every man aaccountable, as a bsteward over earthly blessings, which I have made and prepared for my creatures.
I, the Lord, stretched out the heavens, and abuilt the earth, my very bhandiwork; and all things therein are mine.
And it is my purpose to provide for my saints, for all things are mine.
But it must needs be done in mine own away; and behold this is the way that I, the Lord, have decreed to provide for my saints, that the bpoor shall be exalted, in that the rich are made low.
For the aearth is full, and there is enough and to spare; yea, I prepared all things, and have given unto the children of men to be bagents unto themselves.
Therefore, if any man shall take of the aabundance which I have made, and impart not his portion, according to the blaw of my gospel, unto the cpoor and the needy, he shall, with the wicked, lift up his eyes in dhell, being in torment.
And now, verily I say unto you, concerning the aproperties of the border— Let my servant Sidney Rigdon have appointed unto him the place where he now resides, and the lot of the tannery for his stewardship, for his support while he is laboring in my vineyard, even as I will, when I shall command him.
And let all things be done according to the counsel of the order, and united consent or voice of the order, which dwell in the land of Kirtland.
And this stewardship and blessing, I, the Lord, confer upon my servant Sidney Rigdon for a blessing upon him, and his seed after him; And I will multiply blessings upon him, inasmuch as he will be humble before me.
And again, let my servant Martin Harris have appointed unto him, for his stewardship, the lot of land which my servant John Johnson obtained in exchange for his former inheritance, for him and his seed after him; And inasmuch as he is faithful, I will multiply blessings upon him and his seed after him.
And let my servant Martin Harris devote his moneys for the proclaiming of my words, according as my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., shall direct.
And again, let my servant Frederick G. Williams have the place upon which he now dwells.
And let my servant Oliver Cowdery have the lot which is set off joining the house, which is to be for the printing office, which is lot number one, and also the lot upon which his father resides.
And let my servants Frederick G. Williams and Oliver Cowdery have the printing office and all things that pertain unto it.
And this shall be their stewardship which shall be appointed unto them.
And inasmuch as they are faithful, behold I will bless, and multiply blessings upon them.
And this is the beginning of the stewardship which I have appointed them, for them and their seed after them.
And, inasmuch as they are faithful, I will multiply blessings upon them and their aseed after them, even a multiplicity of blessings.
And again, let my servant John Johnson have the house in which he lives, and the inheritance, all save the ground which has been reserved for the abuilding of my houses, which pertains to that inheritance, and those lots which have been named for my servant Oliver Cowdery.
And inasmuch as he is faithful, I will multiply blessings upon him.
And it is my will that he should sell the lots that are laid off for the building up of the acity of my saints, inasmuch as it shall be made known to him by the bvoice of the Spirit, and according to the counsel of the order, and by the voice of the order.
And this is the beginning of the stewardship which I have appointed unto him, for a blessing unto him and his seed after him.
And inasmuch as he is faithful, I will multiply a multiplicity of blessings upon him.
And again, let my servant Newel K. Whitney have appointed unto him the houses and lot where he now resides, and the lot and building on which the mercantile establishment stands, and also the lot which is on the corner south of the mercantile establishment, and also the lot on which the ashery is situated.
And all this I have appointed unto my servant Newel K. Whitney for his stewardship, for a blessing upon him and his seed after him, for the benefit of the mercantile establishment of my order which I have established for my stake in the land of Kirtland.
Yea, verily, this is the stewardship which I have appointed unto my servant N. K. Whitney, even this whole mercantile establishment, him and his aagent, and his seed after him.
And inasmuch as he is faithful in keeping my commandments, which I have given unto him, I will multiply blessings upon him and his seed after him, even a multiplicity of blessings.
And again, let my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., have appointed unto him the lot which is laid off for the abuilding of my house, which is forty rods long and twelve wide, and also the inheritance upon which his father now resides; And this is the beginning of the stewardship which I have appointed unto him, for a blessing upon him, and upon his father.
For behold, I have reserved an inheritance for his afather, for his support; therefore he shall be reckoned in the house of my servant Joseph Smith, Jun.
And I will multiply blessings upon the house of my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., inasmuch as he is faithful, even a multiplicity of blessings.
And now, a commandment I give unto you concerning Zion, that you shall no longer be bound as a aunited order to your brethren of Zion, only on this wise— After you are organized, you shall be called the United Order of the aStake of Zion, the City of Kirtland.
And your brethren, after they are organized, shall be called the United Order of the City of Zion.
And they shall be organized in their own names, and in their own name; and they shall do their business in their own name, and in their own names; And you shall do your business in your own name, and in your own names.
And this I have commanded to be done for your salvation, and also for their salvation, in consequence of their being adriven out and that which is to come.
The acovenants being broken through transgression, by bcovetousness and feigned words— Therefore, you are dissolved as a united order with your brethren, that you are not bound only up to this hour unto them, only on this wise, as I said, by aloan as shall be agreed by this order in council, as your circumstances will admit and the voice of the council direct.
And again, a commandment I give unto you concerning your stewardship which I have appointed unto you.
Behold, all these properties are mine, or else your faith is vain, and ye are found hypocrites, and the acovenants which ye have made unto me are broken; And if the properties are mine, then ye are astewards; otherwise ye are no stewards.
But, verily I say unto you, I have appointed unto you to be stewards over mine house, even stewards indeed.
And for this purpose I have commanded you to organize yourselves, even to print amy words, the fulness of my scriptures, the revelations which I have given unto you, and which I shall, hereafter, from time to time give unto you— For the purpose of building up my church and kingdom on the earth, and to aprepare my people for the time when I shall bdwell with them, which is nigh at hand.
And ye shall prepare for yourselves a place for a atreasury, and consecrate it unto my name.
And ye shall appoint one among you to keep the treasury, and he shall be ordained unto this blessing.
And there shall be a seal upon the treasury, and all the sacred things shall be delivered into the treasury; and no man among you shall call it his own, or any part of it, for it shall belong to you all with one accord.
And I give it unto you from this very hour; and now see to it, that ye go to and make use of the stewardship which I have appointed unto you, exclusive of the sacred things, for the purpose of printing these sacred things as I have said.
And the aavails of the sacred things shall be had in the treasury, and a seal shall be upon it; and it shall not be used or taken out of the treasury by any one, neither shall the seal be loosed which shall be placed upon it, only by the voice of the order, or by commandment.
And thus shall ye preserve the avails of the sacred things in the treasury, for sacred and holy purposes.
And this shall be called the asacred treasury of the Lord; and a seal shall be kept upon it that it may be holy and consecrated unto the Lord.
And again, there shall be another treasury prepared, and a treasurer appointed to keep the treasury, and a seal shall be placed upon it; And all moneys that you receive in your stewardships, by improving upon the properties which I have appointed unto you, in houses, or in lands, or in cattle, or in all things save it be the holy and sacred writings, which I have reserved unto myself for holy and sacred purposes, shall be cast into the treasury as fast as you receive moneys, by hundreds, or by fifties, or by twenties, or by tens, or by fives.
Or in other words, if any man among you obtain five dollars let him cast them into the treasury; or if he obtain ten, or twenty, or fifty, or an hundred, let him do likewise; And let not any among you say that it is his own; for it shall not be called his, nor any part of it.
And there shall not any part of it be used, or taken out of the treasury, only by the voice and common consent of the order.
And this shall be the voice and common consent of the order—that any man among you say to the treasurer: I have need of this to help me in my stewardship— If it be five dollars, or if it be ten dollars, or twenty, or fifty, or a hundred, the treasurer shall give unto him the sum which he requires to help him in his stewardship— Until he be found a transgressor, and it is manifest before the council of the order plainly that he is an unfaithful and an aunwise steward.
But so long as he is in full fellowship, and is faithful and wise in his stewardship, this shall be his token unto the treasurer that the treasurer shall not withhold.
But in case of transgression, the treasurer shall be subject unto the council and voice of the order.
And in case the treasurer is found an unfaithful and an unwise steward, he shall be subject to the council and voice of the order, and shall be removed out of his place, and aanother shall be appointed in his stead.
And again, verily I say unto you, concerning your debts—behold it is my will that you shall apay all your bdebts.
And it is my will that you shall ahumble yourselves before me, and obtain this blessing by your bdiligence and humility and the prayer of faith.
And inasmuch as you are diligent and humble, and exercise the aprayer of faith, behold, I will soften the hearts of those to whom you are in debt, until I shall send means unto you for your bdeliverance.
Therefore write speedily to New York and write according to that which shall be dictated by my aSpirit; and I will soften the hearts of those to whom you are in debt, that it shall be taken away out of their minds to bring affliction upon you.
And inasmuch as ye are ahumble and faithful and bcall upon my name, behold, I will give you the cvictory.
I give unto you a promise, that you shall be delivered this once out of your abondage.
Inasmuch as you obtain a chance to loan money by hundreds, or thousands, even until you shall loan enough to deliver yourself from bondage, it is your privilege.
And pledge the properties which I have put into your hands, this once, by giving your names by common consent or otherwise, as it shall seem good unto you.
I give unto you this privilege, this once; and behold, if you proceed to do the things which I have laid before you, according to my commandments, all these things are mine, and ye are my stewards, and the master will not suffer his house to be abroken up.
Even so.
Amen.
 It is my will that my servant Warren A. Cowdery should be appointed and ordained a presiding high priest over my church, in the land of aFreedom and the regions round about; And should preach my aeverlasting gospel, and lift up his voice and warn the people, not only in his own place, but in the adjoining counties; And devote his whole time to this high and holy calling, which I now give unto him, aseeking diligently the kingdom of heaven and its righteousness, and all things necessary shall be added thereunto; for the blaborer is worthy of his hire.
And again, verily I say unto you, the acoming of the Lord draweth nigh, and it overtaketh the world as a bthief in the night— Therefore, gird up your loins, that you may be the achildren of light, and that day shall not bovertake you as a thief.
And again, verily I say unto you, there was joy in heaven when my servant Warren bowed to my scepter, and separated himself from the crafts of men; Therefore, blessed is my servant Warren, for I will have mercy on him; and, notwithstanding the avanity of his heart, I will lift him up inasmuch as he will humble himself before me.
And I will give him agrace and assurance wherewith he may stand; and if he continue to be a faithful witness and a blight unto the church I have prepared a crown for him in the cmansions of my Father.
Even so.
Amen.
 There are, in the church, two apriesthoods, namely, the Melchizedek and bAaronic, including the Levitical Priesthood.
Why the first is called the aMelchizedek Priesthood is because bMelchizedek was such a great high priest.
Before his day it was called the Holy aPriesthood, after the bOrder of the Son of God.
But out of arespect or breverence to the name of the Supreme Being, to avoid the too frequent repetition of his name, they, the church, in ancient days, called that priesthood after Melchizedek, or the Melchizedek Priesthood.
All other authorities or offices in the church are aappendages to this priesthood.
But there are two divisions or grand heads—one is the Melchizedek Priesthood, and the other is the Aaronic or aLevitical Priesthood.
The office of an aelder comes under the priesthood of Melchizedek.
The aMelchizedek Priesthood holds the right of presidency, and has power and bauthority over all the offices in the church in all ages of the world, to administer in spiritual things.
The aPresidency of the High Priesthood, after the order of Melchizedek, have a right to officiate in all the offices in the church.
aHigh priests after the order of the Melchizedek Priesthood have a bright to officiate in their own cstanding, under the direction of the presidency, in administering spiritual things, and also in the office of an elder, dpriest (of the Levitical order), teacher, deacon, and member.
An elder has a right to officiate in his stead when the high priest is not present.
The high priest and aelder are to administer in spiritual things, agreeable to the covenants and commandments of the church; and they have a right to officiate in all these offices of the church when there are no higher authorities present.
The second priesthood is called the aPriesthood of Aaron, because it was conferred upon Aaron and his seed, throughout all their generations.
Why it is called the lesser priesthood is because it is an aappendage to the greater, or the Melchizedek Priesthood, and has power in administering outward ordinances.
The abishopric is the presidency of this priesthood, and holds the bkeys or authority of the same.
No man has a legal right to this office, to hold the keys of this priesthood, except he be a aliteral descendant of bAaron.
But as a high priest of the aMelchizedek Priesthood has authority to officiate in all the lesser offices, he may officiate in the office of bbishop when no literal descendant of Aaron can be found, provided he is called and cset apart and ordained unto this power by the hands of the dPresidency of the Melchizedek Priesthood.
The power and authority of the higher, or Melchizedek Priesthood, is to hold the akeys of all the spiritual blessings of the church— To have the privilege of receiving the amysteries of the kingdom of heaven, to have the bheavens opened unto them, to commune with the cgeneral assembly and church of the dFirstborn, and to enjoy the communion and epresence of God the Father, and Jesus the fmediator of the new covenant.
The apower and authority of the lesser, or bAaronic Priesthood, is to hold the ckeys of the ministering of angels, and to dadminister in outward eordinances, the letter of the gospel, the baptism of repentance for the fremission of sins, agreeable to the covenants and commandments.
Of necessity there are presidents, or presiding aofficers growing out of, or appointed of or from among those who are ordained to the several offices in these two priesthoods.
Of the aMelchizedek Priesthood, three bPresiding High Priests, chosen by the body, appointed and ordained to that office, and cupheld by the confidence, faith, and prayer of the church, form a quorum of the Presidency of the Church.
The atwelve traveling councilors are called to be the Twelve bApostles, or special cwitnesses of the name of Christ in all the world—thus differing from other officers in the church in the duties of their calling.
And they form a quorum, aequal in authority and power to the three presidents previously mentioned.
The aSeventy are also called to bpreach the gospel, and to be especial witnesses unto the Gentiles and in all the world—thus differing from other officers in the church in the duties of their calling.
And they form a quorum, equal in aauthority to that of the Twelve special witnesses or Apostles just named.
And every decision made by either of these quorums must be by the aunanimous voice of the same; that is, every member in each quorum must be agreed to its decisions, in order to make their decisions of the same power or validity one with the other— A majority may form a quorum when circumstances render it impossible to be otherwise— Unless this is the case, their decisions are not entitled to the same blessings which the decisions of a quorum of three presidents were anciently, who were ordained after the order of Melchizedek, and were arighteous and holy men.
The decisions of these quorums, or either of them, are to be made in all arighteousness, in holiness, and lowliness of heart, meekness and blong-suffering, and in cfaith, and dvirtue, and knowledge, temperance, patience, godliness, brotherly kindness and charity; Because the promise is, if these things abound in them they shall not be aunfruitful in the knowledge of the Lord.
And in case that any decision of these quorums is made in unrighteousness, it may be brought before a general assembly of the several quorums, which constitute the spiritual authorities of the church; otherwise there can be no aappeal from their decision.
The aTwelve are a bTraveling Presiding High Council, to officiate in the name of the Lord, under the direction of the Presidency of the Church, agreeable to the institution of heaven; to build up the church, and regulate all the affairs of the same in all nations, first unto the cGentiles and secondly unto the Jews.
The aSeventy are to act in the name of the Lord, under the direction of the bTwelve or the traveling high council, in building up the church and regulating all the affairs of the same in all nations, first unto the Gentiles and then to the Jews— The Twelve being asent out, holding the keys, to open the door by the proclamation of the gospel of Jesus Christ, and first unto the Gentiles and then unto the Jews.
The standing ahigh councils, at the stakes of Zion, form a quorum equal in authority in the affairs of the church, in all their decisions, to the quorum of the presidency, or to the traveling high council.
The ahigh council in Zion form a quorum equal in authority in the affairs of the church, in all their decisions, to the councils of the Twelve at the stakes of Zion.
It is the duty of the traveling high council to call upon the aSeventy, when they need assistance, to fill the several calls for preaching and administering the gospel, instead of any others.
It is the duty of the aTwelve, in all large branches of the church, to ordain bevangelical ministers, as they shall be designated unto them by revelation— The order of this priesthood was confirmed to be handed down from father to son, and rightly belongs to the literal descendants of the chosen seed, to whom the promises were made.
This aorder was instituted in the days of bAdam, and came down by clineage in the following manner: From Adam to aSeth, who was bordained by Adam at the age of sixty-nine years, and was blessed by him three years previous to his (Adam’s) death, and received the promise of God by his father, that his posterity should be the chosen of the Lord, and that they should be cpreserved unto the end of the earth; Because he (Seth) was a aperfect man, and his blikeness was the express likeness of his father, insomuch that he seemed to be like unto his father in all things, and could be distinguished from him only by his age.
Enos was ordained at the age of one hundred and thirty-four years and four months, by the hand of Adam.
God called upon Cainan in the wilderness in the fortieth year of his age; and he met Adam in journeying to the place Shedolamak.
He was eighty-seven years old when he received his ordination.
Mahalaleel was four hundred and ninety-six years and seven days old when he was ordained by the hand of Adam, who also blessed him.
Jared was two hundred years old when he was ordained under the hand of Adam, who also blessed him.
aEnoch was twenty-five years old when he was ordained under the hand of Adam; and he was sixty-five and Adam blessed him.
And he asaw the Lord, and he walked with him, and was before his face continually; and he bwalked with God three hundred and sixty-five years, making him four hundred and thirty years old when he was translated.
Methuselah was one hundred years old when he was ordained under the hand of Adam.
Lamech was thirty-two years old when he was ordained under the hand of Seth.
Noah was ten years old when he was aordained under the hand of Methuselah.
Three years previous to the death of Adam, he called Seth, Enos, Cainan, Mahalaleel, Jared, Enoch, and Methuselah, who were all ahigh priests, with the residue of his posterity who were righteous, into the valley of bAdam-ondi-Ahman, and there bestowed upon them his last blessing.
And the Lord appeared unto them, and they rose up and blessed aAdam, and called him Michael, the prince, the archangel.
And the Lord administered comfort unto Adam, and said unto him: I have set thee to be at the head; a multitude of nations shall come of thee, and thou art a aprince over them forever.
And Adam stood up in the midst of the congregation; and, notwithstanding he was bowed down with age, being full of the Holy Ghost, apredicted whatsoever should befall his posterity unto the latest generation.
These things were all written in the book of aEnoch, and are to be testified of in due time.
It is the duty of the aTwelve, also, to bordain and set in order all the other officers of the church, agreeable to the revelation which says: To the church of Christ in the land of Zion, in addition to the church alaws respecting church business— Verily, I say unto you, saith the Lord of Hosts, there must needs be apresiding elders to preside over those who are of the office of an elder; And also apriests to preside over those who are of the office of a priest; And also teachers to preside over those who are of the office of a teacher, in like manner, and also the adeacons— Wherefore, from deacon to teacher, and from teacher to priest, and from priest to elder, severally as they are appointed, according to the covenants and commandments of the church.
Then comes the High Priesthood, which is the greatest of all.
Wherefore, it must needs be that one be appointed of the aHigh Priesthood to preside over the priesthood, and he shall be called President of the High Priesthood of the Church; Or, in other words, the aPresiding High Priest over the High Priesthood of the Church.
From the same comes the administering of ordinances and blessings upon the church, by the alaying on of the hands.
Wherefore, the office of a bishop is not equal unto it; for the office of a abishop is in administering all btemporal things; Nevertheless a abishop must be chosen from the bHigh Priesthood, unless he is a cliteral descendant of Aaron; For unless he is a aliteral descendant of Aaron he cannot hold the keys of that priesthood.
Nevertheless, a high priest, that is, after the order of Melchizedek, may be set apart unto the ministering of temporal things, having a aknowledge of them by the Spirit of truth; And also to be a ajudge in Israel, to do the business of the church, to sit in bjudgment upon transgressors upon testimony as it shall be laid before him according to the laws, by the assistance of his ccounselors, whom he has chosen or will choose among the elders of the church.
This is the duty of a bishop who is not a literal descendant of Aaron, but has been ordained to the High Priesthood after the order of Melchizedek.
Thus shall he be a ajudge, even a common judge among the inhabitants of Zion, or in a stake of Zion, or in any branch of the church where he shall be bset apart unto this ministry, until the borders of Zion are enlarged and it becomes necessary to have other bishops or judges in Zion or elsewhere.
And inasmuch as there are other bishops appointed they shall act in the same office.
But a literal descendant of Aaron has a legal right to the presidency of this priesthood, to the akeys of this ministry, to act in the office of bishop independently, without counselors, except in a case where a President of the High Priesthood, after the order of Melchizedek, is tried, to sit as a judge in Israel.
And the decision of either of these councils, agreeable to the commandment which says: Again, verily, I say unto you, the most important business of the church, and the most adifficult cases of the church, inasmuch as there is not satisfaction upon the decision of the bishop or judges, it shall be handed over and carried up unto the council of the church, before the bPresidency of the High Priesthood.
And the Presidency of the council of the High Priesthood shall have power to call other high priests, even twelve, to assist as counselors; and thus the Presidency of the High Priesthood and its counselors shall have power to decide upon testimony according to the laws of the church.
And after this decision it shall be had in remembrance no more before the Lord; for this is the highest council of the church of God, and a final decision upon controversies in spiritual matters.
There is not any person belonging to the church who is exempt from this council of the church.
And inasmuch as a President of the High Priesthood shall transgress, he shall be had in remembrance before the acommon council of the church, who shall be assisted by twelve counselors of the High Priesthood; And their decision upon his head shall be an end of controversy concerning him.
Thus, none shall be exempted from the ajustice and the blaws of God, that all things may be done in corder and in solemnity before him, according to truth and righteousness.
And again, verily I say unto you, the duty of a president over the office of a adeacon is to preside over twelve deacons, to sit in council with them, and to bteach them their duty, cedifying one another, as it is given according to the covenants.
And also the duty of the president over the office of the ateachers is to preside over twenty-four of the teachers, and to sit in council with them, teaching them the duties of their office, as given in the covenants.
Also the duty of the president over the Priesthood of Aaron is to preside over forty-eight apriests, and sit in council with them, to teach them the duties of their office, as is given in the covenants— This president is to be a abishop; for this is one of the duties of this priesthood.
Again, the duty of the president over the office of aelders is to preside over ninety-six elders, and to sit in council with them, and to teach them according to the covenants.
This presidency is a distinct one from that of the seventy, and is designed for those who do not atravel into all the world.
And again, the duty of the President of the office of the High Priesthood is to apreside over the whole church, and to be like unto bMoses— Behold, here is wisdom; yea, to be a aseer, a brevelator, a translator, and a cprophet, having all the dgifts of God which he bestows upon the head of the church.
And it is according to the vision showing the order of the aSeventy, that they should have seven presidents to preside over them, chosen out of the number of the seventy; And the seventh president of these presidents is to preside over the six; And these seven presidents are to choose other seventy besides the first seventy to whom they belong, and are to preside over them; And also other seventy, until seven times seventy, if the labor in the vineyard of necessity requires it.
And these aseventy are to be btraveling ministers, unto the Gentiles first and also unto the Jews.
Whereas other officers of the church, who belong not unto the Twelve, neither to the Seventy, are not under the responsibility to travel among all nations, but are to travel as their circumstances shall allow, notwithstanding they may hold as high and responsible offices in the church.
Wherefore, now let every man learn his aduty, and to act in the office in which he is appointed, in all bdiligence.
He that is aslothful shall not be counted bworthy to stand, and he that learns not his duty and shows himself not approved shall not be counted worthy to stand.
Even so.
Amen.
 Verily thus saith the Lord unto you, my servant Lyman: Your sins are forgiven you, because you have obeyed my avoice in coming up hither this morning to receive counsel of him whom I have appointed.
Therefore, let your soul be at arest concerning your spiritual standing, and resist no more my voice.
And arise up and be more careful henceforth in observing your avows, which you have made and do make, and you shall be blessed with exceeding great blessings.
Wait patiently until the asolemn assembly shall be called of my servants, then you shall be remembered with the bfirst of mine elders, and receive right by ordination with the rest of mine elders whom I have chosen.
Behold, this is the apromise of the Father unto you if you continue faithful.
And it shall be fulfilled upon you in that day that you shall have right to apreach my gospel wheresoever I shall send you, from henceforth from that time.
Therefore, astrengthen your brethren in all your conversation, in all your prayers, in all your exhortations, and in all your doings.
And behold, and lo, I am with you to bless you and adeliver you forever.
Amen.
 aA great and marvelous work is about to come forth among the children of men.
Behold, I am God; give aheed to my bword, which is quick and cpowerful, dsharper than a two-edged sword, to the dividing asunder of both joints and marrow; therefore give eheed unto my word.
Behold, the field is awhite already to harvest; therefore, whoso desireth to reap let him thrust in his sickle with his bmight, and reap while the day lasts, that he may ctreasure up for his soul deverlasting salvation in the kingdom of God.
Yea, whosoever will thrust in his sickle and areap, the same is bcalled of God.
Therefore, if you will ask of me you shall receive; if you will aknock it shall be opened unto you.
Now, as you have asked, behold, I say unto you, keep my commandments, and seek to bring forth and establish the cause of aZion.
Seek not for ariches but for bwisdom; and, behold, the mysteries of God shall be unfolded unto you, and then shall you be made crich.
Behold, he that hath eternal life is rich.
Verily, verily, I say unto you, even as you desire of me so it shall be done unto you; and, if you desire, you shall be the means of doing much good in this generation.
aSay nothing but brepentance unto this generation.
Keep my commandments, and assist to bring forth my cwork, daccording to my commandments, and you shall be blessed.
Behold, thou hast a agift, or thou shalt have a gift if thou wilt desire of me in faith, with an bhonest heart, believing in the power of Jesus Christ, or in my power which speaketh unto thee; For, behold, it is I that speak; behold, I am the alight which shineth in darkness, and by my bpower I give these words unto thee.
And now, verily, verily, I say unto thee, put your atrust in that bSpirit which cleadeth to do dgood—yea, to do ejustly, to walk fhumbly, to gjudge righteously; and this is my Spirit.
Verily, verily, I say unto you, I will impart unto you of my Spirit, which shall aenlighten your bmind, which shall fill your soul with cjoy; And then shall ye know, or by this shall you know, all things whatsoever you desire of me, which are pertaining unto things of arighteousness, in faith believing in me that you shall receive.
Behold, I command you that you need not suppose that you are acalled to bpreach cuntil you are called.
Wait a little longer, until you shall have my word, my arock, my bchurch, and my gospel, that you may know of a surety my doctrine.
And then, behold, according to your desires, yea, even according to your afaith shall it be done unto you.
Keep my commandments; hold your peace; appeal unto my Spirit; Yea, acleave unto me with all your heart, that you may assist in bringing to light those things of which has been spoken—yea, the btranslation of my work; be patient until you shall accomplish it.
Behold, this is your work, to akeep my commandments, yea, with all your might, bmind and strength.
Seek not to adeclare my word, but first seek to bobtain my cword, and then shall your tongue be loosed; then, if you desire, you shall have my dSpirit and my word, yea, the power of God unto the econvincing of men.
But now hold your apeace; study bmy word which hath gone forth among the children of men, and also cstudy my word which shall come forth among the children of men, or that which is dnow translating, yea, until you have obtained all which I shall egrant unto the children of men in this generation, and then shall all things be added thereto.
Behold thou art aHyrum, my son; bseek the kingdom of God, and all things shall be added according to that which is just.
aBuild upon my brock, which is my cgospel; Deny not the spirit of arevelation, nor the spirit of bprophecy, for wo unto him that cdenieth these things; Therefore, atreasure up in your bheart until the time which is in my wisdom that you shall go forth.
Behold, I speak unto aall who have good desires, and have thrust in their sickle to reap.
Behold, I am Jesus Christ, the aSon of God.
I am the life and the blight of the world.
I am the same who came unto mine own and mine own areceived me not; But verily, verily, I say unto you, that as many as receive me, to them will I give apower to become the bsons of God, even to them that cbelieve on my name.
Amen.
 The aveil was taken from our minds, and the beyes of our cunderstanding were opened.
We asaw the Lord bstanding upon the breastwork of the pulpit, before us; and under his feet was a paved work of pure cgold, in color like amber.
His aeyes were as a flame of fire; the hair of his head was white like the pure snow; his bcountenance shone above the brightness of the sun; and his cvoice was as the sound of the rushing of great waters, even the voice of dJehovah, saying: I am the afirst and the last; I am he who bliveth, I am he who was slain; I am your cadvocate with the Father.
Behold, your sins are aforgiven you; you are clean before me; therefore, lift up your heads and brejoice.
Let the hearts of your brethren rejoice, and let the hearts of all my people rejoice, who have, with their might, abuilt this house to my name.
For behold, I have aaccepted this bhouse, and my name shall be here; and I will cmanifest myself to my people in mercy in this house.
Yea, I will aappear unto my servants, and speak unto them with mine own voice, if my people will keep my commandments, and do not bpollute this choly house.
Yea the hearts of thousands and tens of thousands shall greatly rejoice in consequence of the ablessings which shall be poured out, and the bendowment with which my servants have been endowed in this house.
And the fame of this house shall spread to foreign lands; and this is the beginning of the blessing which shall be apoured out upon the heads of my people.
Even so.
Amen.
After this avision closed, the heavens were again bopened unto us; and cMoses appeared before us, and committed unto us the dkeys of the egathering of Israel from the four parts of the earth, and the leading of the ten tribes from the land of the fnorth.
After this, aElias appeared, and committed the bdispensation of the cgospel of Abraham, saying that in us and our seed all dgenerations after us should be eblessed.
After this vision had closed, another great and glorious avision burst upon us; for bElijah the prophet, who was taken to heaven without tasting death, stood before us, and said: Behold, the time has fully come, which was spoken of by the mouth of Malachi—testifying that he [Elijah] should be sent, before the great and dreadful day of the Lord come— To aturn the bhearts of the fathers to the children, and the children to the fathers, lest the whole earth be smitten with a curse— Therefore, the akeys of this bdispensation are committed into your hands; and by this ye may know that the great and dreadful cday of the Lord is near, even at the doors.
 I, the Lord your God, am anot displeased with your coming this journey, notwithstanding your follies.
I have much atreasure in this city for you, for the benefit of Zion, and many people in this city, whom I will gather out in due time for the benefit of Zion, through your instrumentality.
Therefore, it is expedient that you should form aacquaintance with men in this city, as you shall be led, and as it shall be given you.
And it shall come to pass in due time that I will agive this city into your hands, that you shall have power over it, insomuch that they shall not bdiscover your secret parts; and its wealth pertaining to gold and silver shall be yours.
Concern not yourselves about your adebts, for I will give you power to pay them.
Concern not yourselves about Zion, for I will deal mercifully with her.
Tarry in this place, and in the regions round about; And the place where it is my will that you should tarry, for the main, shall be signalized unto you by the apeace and power of my bSpirit, that shall flow unto you.
This place you may obtain by hire.
And inquire diligently concerning the more ancient inhabitants and founders of this city; For there are more treasures than one for you in this city.
Therefore, be ye as awise as serpents and yet without bsin; and I will order all things for your cgood, as fast as ye are able to receive them.
Amen.
 Verily thus saith the Lord unto you my servant Thomas: I have heard thy prayers; and thine aalms have come up as a bmemorial before me, in behalf of those, thy brethren, who were chosen to bear testimony of my name and to csend it abroad among all nations, kindreds, tongues, and people, and ordained through the instrumentality of my servants.
Verily I say unto you, there have been some few things in thine heart and with thee with which I, the Lord, was not well pleased.
Nevertheless, inasmuch as thou hast aabased thyself thou shalt be exalted; therefore, all thy sins are forgiven thee.
Let thy heart be of good acheer before my face; and thou shalt bear record of my name, not only unto the bGentiles, but also unto the Jews; and thou shalt send forth my word unto the ends of the earth.
aContend thou, therefore, morning by morning; and day after day let thy bwarning voice go forth; and when the night cometh let not the inhabitants of the earth slumber, because of thy cspeech.
Let thy habitation be known in Zion, and aremove not thy house; for I, the Lord, have a great work for thee to do, in publishing my name among the children of men.
Therefore, agird up thy loins for the work.
Let thy feet be shod also, for thou art chosen, and thy path lieth among the mountains, and among many nations.
And by thy word many high ones shall be brought low, and by thy word many low ones shall be aexalted.
Thy voice shall be a rebuke unto the transgressor; and at thy arebuke let the tongue of the slanderer cease its perverseness.
Be thou ahumble; and the Lord thy God shall blead thee by the hand, and give thee answer to thy prayers.
I know thy heart, and have heard thy prayers concerning thy brethren.
Be not partial towards them in love above many others, but let thy alove be for them as for thyself; and let thy love abound unto all men, and unto all who love my name.
And pray for thy brethren of the Twelve.
aAdmonish them sharply for my name’s sake, and let them be admonished for all their sins, and be ye faithful before me unto my bname.
And after their atemptations, and much btribulation, behold, I, the Lord, will feel after them, and if they harden not their hearts, and cstiffen not their necks against me, they shall be dconverted, and I will heal them.
Now, I say unto you, and what I say unto you, I say unto all the Twelve: Arise and gird up your loins, take up your across, follow me, and bfeed my sheep.
Exalt not yourselves; arebel not against my servant Joseph; for verily I say unto you, I am with him, and my hand shall be over him; and the bkeys which I have given unto him, and also to youward, shall not be taken from him till I come.
Verily I say unto you, my servant Thomas, thou art the man whom I have chosen to hold the akeys of my kingdom, as pertaining to the Twelve, abroad among all nations— That thou mayest be my servant to unlock the door of the kingdom in all places where my servant Joseph, and my servant Sidney, and my servant Hyrum, acannot come; For on them have I laid the burden of all the churches for a little season.
Wherefore, whithersoever they shall send you, go ye, and I will be with you; and in whatsoever place ye shall proclaim my name an aeffectual door shall be opened unto you, that they may receive my word.
Whosoever areceiveth my word receiveth me, and whosoever receiveth me, receiveth those, the First Presidency, whom I have sent, whom I have made counselors for my name’s sake unto you.
And again, I say unto you, that whosoever ye shall send in my name, by the voice of your brethren, the aTwelve, duly recommended and bauthorized by you, shall have power to open the door of my kingdom unto any nation whithersoever ye shall send them— Inasmuch as they shall humble themselves before me, and abide in my word, and ahearken to the voice of my Spirit.
Verily, verily, I say unto you, adarkness covereth the earth, and gross darkness the minds of the people, and all flesh has become bcorrupt before my face.
Behold, avengeance cometh speedily upon the inhabitants of the earth, a day of wrath, a day of burning, a day of bdesolation, of cweeping, of mourning, and of lamentation; and as a whirlwind it shall come upon all the face of the earth, saith the Lord.
And upon my ahouse shall it bbegin, and from my house shall it go forth, saith the Lord; First among those among you, saith the Lord, who have aprofessed to know my bname and have not cknown me, and have dblasphemed against me in the midst of my house, saith the Lord.
Therefore, see to it that ye trouble not yourselves concerning the affairs of my church ain this place, saith the Lord.
But apurify your hearts before me; and then bgo ye into all the world, and preach my gospel unto every creature who has not received it; And he that abelieveth and is bbaptized shall be saved, and he that believeth not, and is not baptized, shall be cdamned.
For unto you, the aTwelve, and those, the First Presidency, who are appointed with you to be your bcounselors and your leaders, is the cpower of this priesthood given, for the last days and for the last time, in the which is the dispensation of the dfulness of times, Which power you hold, in connection with all those who have received a adispensation at any time from the beginning of the creation; For verily I say unto you, the akeys of the dispensation, which ye have received, have bcome down from the fathers, and last of all, being sent down from heaven unto you.
Verily I say unto you, behold how great is your calling.
aCleanse your hearts and your garments, lest the blood of this generation be brequired at your hands.
Be faithful until I come, for I acome quickly; and my reward is with me to recompense every man according as his bwork shall be.
I am Alpha and Omega.
Amen.
 Who is the aStem of Jesse spoken of in the st, d, d, th, and th verses of the th chapter of Isaiah?
Verily thus saith the Lord: It is Christ.
What is the arod spoken of in the first verse of the th chapter of Isaiah, that should come of the Stem of Jesse?
Behold, thus saith the Lord: It is a servant in the hands of Christ, who is partly a descendant of Jesse as well as of aEphraim, or of the house of Joseph, on whom there is laid much bpower.
What is the aroot of Jesse spoken of in the th verse of the th chapter?
Behold, thus saith the Lord, it is a adescendant of Jesse, as well as of Joseph, unto whom rightly belongs the bpriesthood, and the ckeys of the kingdom, for an densign, and for the gathering of my people in the elast days.
Questions by Elias Higbee: What is meant by the command in Isaiah, d chapter, st verse, which saith: Put on thy strength, O Zion—and what people had Isaiah reference to?
He had reference to those whom God should call in the last days, who should hold the apower of bpriesthood to bring again cZion, and the redemption of Israel; and to put on her dstrength is to put on the eauthority of the fpriesthood, which she, Zion, has a gright to by lineage; also to return to that power which she had lost.
What are we to understand by Zion loosing herself from the bands of her neck; d verse?
We are to understand that the ascattered bremnants are exhorted to creturn to the Lord from whence they have fallen; which if they do, the promise of the Lord is that he will speak to them, or give them revelation.
See the th, th, and th verses.
The dbands of her neck are the curses of God upon her, or the remnants of Israel in their scattered condition among the Gentiles.
 Verily thus saith the Lord: It is wisdom in my servant David W. Patten, that he settle up all his business as soon as he possibly can, and make a disposition of his merchandise, that he may aperform a mission unto me next spring, in company with others, even twelve including himself, to testify of my name and bear glad tidings unto all the world.
For verily thus saith the Lord, that inasmuch as there are those among you who adeny my name, others shall be bplanted in their cstead and receive their dbishopric.
Amen.
 Verily thus saith the Lord unto you, my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., and also my servant Sidney Rigdon, and also my servant Hyrum Smith, and your acounselors who are and shall be appointed hereafter; And also unto you, my servant aEdward Partridge, and his counselors; And also unto my faithful servants who are of the high council of my achurch in Zion, for thus it shall be called, and unto all the elders and people of my Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, scattered abroad in all the world; For thus shall amy bchurch be called in the last days, even The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day cSaints.
Verily I say unto you all: aArise and shine forth, that thy blight may be a cstandard for the dnations; And that the agathering together upon the land of bZion, and upon her cstakes, may be for a defense, and for a drefuge from the storm, and from wrath when it shall be epoured out without mixture upon the whole earth.
Let the city, Far West, be a holy and consecrated land unto me; and it shall be called most holy, for the ground upon which thou standest is aholy.
Therefore, I command you to abuild a house unto me, for the gathering together of my saints, that they may bworship me.
And let there be a beginning of this work, and a foundation, and a preparatory work, this following summer; And let the beginning be made on the fourth day of July next; and from that time forth let my people alabor diligently to build a house unto my name; And in aone year from this day let them re-commence laying the foundation of my bhouse.
Thus let them from that time forth labor diligently until it shall be finished, from the cornerstone thereof unto the top thereof, until there shall not anything remain that is not finished.
Verily I say unto you, let not my servant Joseph, neither my servant Sidney, neither my servant Hyrum, get in adebt any more for the building of a house unto my name; But let a house be built unto my name according to the apattern which I will show unto them.
And if my people build it not according to the pattern which I shall show unto their presidency, I will not accept it at their hands.
But if my people do build it according to the pattern which I shall show unto their presidency, even my servant Joseph and his counselors, then I will accept it at the hands of my people.
And again, verily I say unto you, it is my will that the city of Far West should be built up speedily by the gathering of my saints; And also that other places should be appointed for astakes in the regions round about, as they shall be manifested unto my servant Joseph, from time to time.
For behold, I will be with him, and I will sanctify him before the people; for unto him have I given the akeys of this kingdom and ministry.
Even so.
Amen.
 Spring Hill is named by the Lord aAdam-ondi-Ahman, because, said he, it is the place where bAdam shall come to visit his people, or the Ancient of Days shall sit, as spoken of by Daniel the prophet.
 Verily thus saith the Lord unto my servant aWilliam Marks, and also unto my servant Newel K. Whitney, let them settle up their business speedily and journey from the land of Kirtland, before I, the Lord, bsend again the snows upon the earth.
Let them awake, and arise, and acome forth, and not tarry, for I, the Lord, command it.
Therefore, if they atarry it shall not be well with them.
Let them repent of all their sins, and of all their covetous desires, before me, saith the Lord; for what is aproperty unto me?
saith the Lord.
Let the properties of Kirtland be turned out for adebts, saith the Lord.
Let them go, saith the Lord, and whatsoever remaineth, let it remain in your hands, saith the Lord.
For have I not the fowls of heaven, and also the fish of the sea, and the beasts of the mountains?
Have I not amade the earth?
Do I not hold the bdestinies of all the armies of the nations of the earth?
Therefore, will I not make asolitary places to bud and to bblossom, and to bring forth in abundance?
saith the Lord.
Is there not room enough on the mountains of aAdam-ondi-Ahman, and on the plains of Olaha bShinehah, or the land where cAdam dwelt, that you should covet that which is but the drop, and neglect the more weighty matters?
Therefore, come up hither unto the land of my people, even Zion.
Let my servant William Marks be afaithful over a few things, and he shall be a ruler over many.
Let him preside in the midst of my people in the city of Far West, and let him be blessed with the blessings of my people.
Let my servant Newel K. Whitney be ashamed of the aNicolaitane band and of all their bsecret abominations, and of all his littleness of soul before me, saith the Lord, and come up to the land of Adam-ondi-Ahman, and be a cbishop unto my people, saith the Lord, not in name but in deed, saith the Lord.
And again, I say unto you, I remember my servant aOliver Granger; behold, verily I say unto him that his name shall be had in sacred remembrance from generation to generation, forever and ever, saith the Lord.
Therefore, let him contend earnestly for the redemption of the First Presidency of my Church, saith the Lord; and when he falls he shall rise again, for his asacrifice shall be more sacred unto me than his increase, saith the Lord.
Therefore, let him come up hither speedily, unto the land of Zion; and in the due time he shall be made a merchant unto my name, saith the Lord, for the benefit of my people.
Therefore let no man despise my servant Oliver Granger, but let the blessings of my people be on him forever and ever.
And again, verily I say unto you, let all my servants in the land of Kirtland remember the Lord their God, and mine house also, to keep and preserve it holy, and to overthrow the moneychangers in mine own due time, saith the Lord.
Even so.
Amen.
 Verily, thus saith the Lord: Let a conference be held immediately; let the Twelve be organized; and let men be appointed to asupply the place of those who are fallen.
Let my servant aThomas remain for a season in the land of Zion, to publish my word.
Let the residue continue to preach from that hour, and if they will do this in all alowliness of heart, in meekness and humility, and blong-suffering, I, the Lord, give unto them a cpromise that I will provide for their families; and an effectual door shall be opened for them, from henceforth.
And next spring let them depart to go over the great waters, and there promulgate my gospel, the fulness thereof, and bear record of my name.
Let them atake leave of my saints in the city of Far West, on the btwenty-sixth day of April next, on the building-spot of my house, saith the Lord.
Let my servant John Taylor, and also my servant John E. Page, and also my servant Wilford Woodruff, and also my servant Willard Richards, be appointed to fill the places of those who have afallen, and be officially notified of their appointment.
 Verily, thus saith the Lord, I require all their asurplus property to be put into the hands of the bishop of my church in Zion, For the building of mine ahouse, and for the laying of the foundation of Zion and for the priesthood, and for the debts of the Presidency of my Church.
And this shall be the beginning of the atithing of my people.
And after that, those who have thus been atithed shall pay one-tenth of all their interest annually; and this shall be a standing law unto them forever, for my holy priesthood, saith the Lord.
Verily I say unto you, it shall come to pass that all those who gather unto the land of aZion shall be tithed of their surplus properties, and shall observe this law, or they shall not be found worthy to abide among you.
And I say unto you, if my people observe not this law, to keep it holy, and by this law sanctify the land of Zion unto me, that my statutes and my judgments may be kept thereon, that it may be most holy, behold, verily I say unto you, it shall not be a land of aZion unto you.
And this shall be an ensample unto all the astakes of Zion.
Even so.
Amen.
 Verily, thus saith the Lord, the time is now come, that ait shall be bdisposed of by a council, composed of the First Presidency of my Church, and of the bishop and his council, and by my high council; and by mine own voice unto them, saith the Lord.
Even so.
Amen.
 O God, awhere art thou?
And where is the pavilion that covereth thy bhiding place?
aHow long shall thy hand be stayed, and thine eye, yea thy pure eye, behold from the eternal heavens the wrongs of thy people and of thy servants, and thine ear be penetrated with their cries?
Yea, O Lord, ahow long shall they suffer these wrongs and unlawful boppressions, before thine heart shall be softened toward them, and thy bowels be moved with ccompassion toward them?
O Lord God aAlmighty, maker of bheaven, earth, and seas, and of all things that in them are, and who controllest and subjectest the devil, and the dark and benighted dominion of Sheol—stretch forth thy hand; let thine eye pierce; let thy cpavilion be taken up; let thy dhiding place no longer be covered; let thine ear be inclined; let thine eheart be softened, and thy bowels moved with compassion toward us.
Let thine aanger be kindled against our enemies; and, in the fury of thine heart, with thy bsword cavenge us of our wrongs.
Remember thy asuffering saints, O our God; and thy servants will rejoice in thy name forever.
My son, apeace be unto thy soul; thine badversity and thine afflictions shall be but a csmall moment; And then, if thou aendure it well, God shall exalt thee on high; thou shalt triumph over all thy bfoes.
Thy afriends do stand by thee, and they shall hail thee again with warm hearts and friendly hands.
Thou art not yet as Job; thy afriends do not contend against thee, neither charge thee with transgression, as they did Job.
And they who do charge thee with transgression, their hope shall be blasted, and their prospects shall amelt away as the hoar frost melteth before the burning rays of the rising sun; And also that God hath set his hand and seal to change the atimes and seasons, and to blind their bminds, that they may not understand his cmarvelous workings; that he may dprove them also and take them in their own craftiness; Also because their hearts are corrupted, and the things which they are willing to bring upon others, and love to have others suffer, may come upon athemselves to the very uttermost; That they may be adisappointed also, and their hopes may be cut off; And not many years hence, that they and their aposterity shall be bswept from under heaven, saith God, that not one of them is left to stand by the wall.
aCursed are all those that shall lift up the bheel against mine canointed, saith the Lord, and cry they have dsinned when they have not sinned before me, saith the Lord, but have done that which was meet in mine eyes, and which I commanded them.
But athose who cry transgression do it because they are the servants of sin, and are the bchildren of disobedience themselves.
And those who aswear bfalsely against my servants, that they might bring them into bondage and death— Wo unto them; because they have aoffended my little ones they shall be severed from the bordinances of mine house.
Their abasket shall not be full, their houses and their barns shall perish, and they themselves shall be bdespised by those that flattered them.
They shall not have right to the apriesthood, nor their posterity after them from generation to generation.
It had been abetter for them that a millstone had been hanged about their necks, and they drowned in the depth of the sea.
Wo unto all those that adiscomfort my people, and drive, and bmurder, and testify against them, saith the Lord of Hosts; a cgeneration of vipers shall not escape the damnation of hell.
Behold, mine eyes asee and know all their works, and I have in reserve a swift bjudgment in the season thereof, for them all; For there is a atime bappointed for every man, according as his cworks shall be.
God shall give unto you aknowledge by his bHoly Spirit, yea, by the unspeakable cgift of the Holy Ghost, that has not been drevealed since the world was until now; Which our forefathers have awaited with aanxious expectation to be revealed in the last times, which their minds were pointed to by the angels, as held in reserve for the fulness of their glory; A time to come in the which anothing shall be withheld, whether there be bone God or many cgods, they shall be manifest.
All thrones and dominions, principalities and powers, shall be arevealed and set forth upon all who have endured bvaliantly for the gospel of Jesus Christ.
And also, if there be abounds set to the heavens or to the seas, or to the dry land, or to the sun, moon, or stars— All the times of their revolutions, all the appointed days, months, and years, and all the days of their days, months, and years, and all their aglories, laws, and set times, shall be revealed in the days of the bdispensation of the fulness of times— According to that which was aordained in the midst of the bCouncil of the Eternal cGod of all other gods before this dworld was, that should be reserved unto the finishing and the end thereof, when every man shall enter into his eternal epresence and into his immortal frest.
How long can rolling waters remain impure?
What apower shall stay the heavens?
As well might man stretch forth his puny arm to stop the Missouri river in its decreed course, or to turn it up stream, as to bhinder the cAlmighty from pouring down dknowledge from heaven upon the heads of the Latter-day Saints.
Behold, there are many acalled, but few are chosen.
And why are they not chosen?
Because their ahearts are set so much upon the things of this bworld, and caspire to the dhonors of men, that they do not learn this one lesson— That the arights of the priesthood are inseparably connected with the powers of heaven, and that the powers of heaven cannot be bcontrolled nor handled only upon the cprinciples of righteousness.
That they may be conferred upon us, it is true; but when we undertake to acover our bsins, or to gratify our cpride, our vain ambition, or to exercise control or ddominion or compulsion upon the souls of the children of men, in any degree of unrighteousness, behold, the heavens ewithdraw themselves; the Spirit of the Lord is grieved; and when it is withdrawn, Amen to the priesthood or the authority of that man.
Behold, ere he is aware, he is left unto himself, to akick against the pricks, to bpersecute the saints, and to cfight against God.
We have learned by sad experience that it is the anature and disposition of almost all men, as soon as they get a little bauthority, as they suppose, they will immediately begin to exercise cunrighteous dominion.
Hence many are called, but afew are chosen.
No apower or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the bpriesthood, only by cpersuasion, by dlong-suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned; By akindness, and pure bknowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the csoul without dhypocrisy, and without eguile— aReproving betimes with bsharpness, when cmoved upon by the Holy Ghost; and then showing forth afterwards an increase of dlove toward him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy; That he may know that thy faithfulness is stronger than the cords of adeath.
Let thy abowels also be full of charity towards all men, and to the household of faith, and let bvirtue garnish thy thoughts unceasingly; then shall thy cconfidence wax strong in the dpresence of God; and the doctrine of the priesthood shall distil upon thy soul as the edews from heaven.
The Holy Ghost shall be thy constant acompanion, and thy scepter an unchanging scepter of brighteousness and truth; and thy cdominion shall be an everlasting dominion, and without compulsory means it shall flow unto thee forever and ever.
 The ends of the earth shall inquire after thy aname, and fools shall have thee in bderision, and hell shall rage against thee; While the pure in heart, and the wise, and the noble, and the virtuous, shall seek acounsel, and authority, and blessings constantly from under thy hand.
And thy apeople shall never be turned against thee by the testimony of traitors.
And although their influence shall cast thee into trouble, and into bars and walls, thou shalt be had in ahonor; and but for a small bmoment and thy voice shall be more terrible in the midst of thine enemies than the fierce clion, because of thy righteousness; and thy God shall stand by thee forever and ever.
If thou art called to pass through atribulation; if thou art in perils among false brethren; if thou art in bperils among robbers; if thou art in perils by land or by sea; If thou art aaccused with all manner of false accusations; if thine enemies fall upon thee; if they tear thee from the society of thy father and mother and brethren and sisters; and if with a drawn sword thine enemies tear thee from the bosom of thy wife, and of thine offspring, and thine elder son, although but six years of age, shall cling to thy garments, and shall say, My father, my father, why can’t you stay with us?
O, my father, what are the men going to do with you?
and if then he shall be thrust from thee by the sword, and thou be dragged to bprison, and thine enemies prowl around thee like cwolves for the blood of the lamb; And if thou shouldst be cast into the apit, or into the hands of murderers, and the sentence of death passed upon thee; if thou be cast into the bdeep; if the billowing surge conspire against thee; if fierce winds become thine enemy; if the heavens gather blackness, and all the elements combine to chedge up the way; and above all, if the very jaws of dhell shall gape open the mouth wide after thee, know thou, my son, that all these things shall give thee eexperience, and shall be for thy good.
The aSon of Man hath bdescended below them all.
Art thou greater than he?
Therefore, ahold on thy way, and the priesthood shall bremain with thee; for their cbounds are set, they cannot pass.
Thy ddays are known, and thy years shall not be numbered less; therefore, efear not what man can do, for God shall be with you forever and ever.
 And again, we would suggest for your consideration the propriety of all the saints agathering up a knowledge of all the facts, and bsufferings and abuses put upon them by the people of this State; And also of all the property and amount of damages which they have sustained, both of character and personal ainjuries, as well as real property; And also the names of all persons that have had a hand in their aoppressions, as far as they can get hold of them and find them out.
And perhaps a committee can be appointed to find out these things, and to take astatements and affidavits; and also to gather up the libelous publications that are afloat; And all that are in the magazines, and in the encyclopedias, and all the libelous histories that are published, and are writing, and by whom, and present the whole concatenation of diabolical rascality and nefarious and murderous impositions that have been practiced upon this people— That we may not only publish to all the world, but present them to the aheads of government in all their dark and hellish hue, as the last effort which is enjoined on us by our Heavenly Father, before we can fully and completely claim that promise which shall call him forth from his bhiding place; and also that the whole nation may be left without excuse before he can send forth the power of his mighty arm.
It is an imperative duty that we owe to God, to angels, with whom we shall be brought to stand, and also to ourselves, to our wives and achildren, who have been made to bow down with grief, sorrow, and care, under the most damning hand of murder, tyranny, and boppression, supported and urged on and upheld by the influence of that spirit which hath so strongly riveted the ccreeds of the fathers, who have inherited lies, upon the hearts of the children, and filled the world with confusion, and has been growing stronger and stronger, and is now the very mainspring of all corruption, and the whole dearth groans under the weight of its iniquity.
It is an iron ayoke, it is a strong band; they are the very handcuffs, and chains, and shackles, and fetters of bhell.
Therefore it is an imperative duty that we owe, not only to our own wives and children, but to the awidows and fatherless, whose husbands and fathers have been bmurdered under its iron hand; Which dark and blackening deeds are enough to make hell itself ashudder, and to stand aghast and pale, and the hands of the very devil to tremble and palsy.
And also it is an imperative duty that we owe to all the rising generation, and to all the pure in heart— For there are many yet on the earth among all sects, parties, and denominations, who are ablinded by the subtle bcraftiness of men, whereby they lie in wait to cdeceive, and who are only kept from the truth because they dknow not where to find it— Therefore, that we should waste and awear out our lives in bringing to light all the bhidden things of darkness, wherein we know them; and they are truly manifest from heaven— These should then be attended to with great aearnestness.
Let no man count them as small things; for there is much which lieth in futurity, pertaining to the saints, which depends upon these things.
You know, brethren, that a very large ship is abenefited very much by a very small helm in the time of a storm, by being kept workways with the wind and the waves.
Therefore, dearly beloved brethren, let us acheerfully bdo all things that lie in our power; and then may we stand still, with the utmost assurance, to see the csalvation of God, and for his arm to be revealed.
 What is the will of the Lord concerning the saints in the Territory of Iowa?
Verily, thus saith the Lord, I say unto you, if those who acall themselves by my name and are essaying to be my saints, if they will do my will and keep my commandments concerning them, let them gather themselves together unto the places which I shall appoint unto them by my servant Joseph, and build up cities unto my name, that they may be prepared for that which is in store for a time to come.
Let them build up a city unto my name upon the land opposite the city of Nauvoo, and let the name of aZarahemla be named upon it.
And let all those who come from the east, and the west, and the north, and the south, that have desires to dwell therein, take up their inheritance in the same, as well as in the city of aNashville, or in the city of Nauvoo, and in all the bstakes which I have appointed, saith the Lord.
 Dear and well-beloved brother, aBrigham Young, verily thus saith the Lord unto you: My servant Brigham, it is bno more required at your hand to leave your family as in times past, for your offering is acceptable to me.
I have seen your alabor and toil in journeyings for my name.
I therefore command you to asend my word abroad, and take especial bcare of your family from this time, henceforth and forever.
Amen.
 Forasmuch as the Lord has revealed unto me that my enemies, both in Missouri and this State, were again in the pursuit of me; and inasmuch as they pursue me without a acause, and have not the least shadow or coloring of justice or right on their side in the getting up of their prosecutions against me; and inasmuch as their pretensions are all founded in falsehood of the blackest dye, I have thought it expedient and wisdom in me to leave the place for a short season, for my own safety and the safety of this people.
I would say to all those with whom I have business, that I have left my baffairs with agents and clerks who will transact all business in a prompt and proper manner, and will see that all my debts are canceled in due time, by turning out property, or otherwise, as the case may require, or as the circumstances may admit of.
When I learn that the storm is fully blown over, then I will return to you again.
And as for the aperils which I am called to pass through, they seem but a small thing to me, as the benvy and wrath of man have been my common lot all the days of my life; and for what cause it seems mysterious, unless I was cordained from before the foundation of the world for some good end, or bad, as you may choose to call it.
Judge ye for yourselves.
God dknoweth all these things, whether it be good or bad.
But nevertheless, deep water is what I am wont to swim in.
It all has become a second nature to me; and I feel, like Paul, to glory in etribulation; for to this day has the God of my fathers delivered me out of them all, and will deliver me from henceforth; for behold, and lo, I shall triumph over all my enemies, for the Lord God hath spoken it.
Let all the saints rejoice, therefore, and be exceedingly glad; for Israel’s aGod is their God, and he will mete out a just recompense of breward upon the heads of all their coppressors.
And again, verily thus saith the Lord: Let the work of my atemple, and all the works which I have appointed unto you, be continued on and not cease; and let your bdiligence, and your perseverance, and patience, and your works be redoubled, and you shall in nowise lose your reward, saith the Lord of Hosts.
And if they cpersecute you, so persecuted they the prophets and righteous men that were before you.
For all this there is a reward in heaven.
And again, I give unto you a word in relation to the abaptism for your dead.
Verily, thus saith the Lord unto you concerning your dead: When any of you are abaptized for your dead, let there be a brecorder, and let him be eye-witness of your baptisms; let him hear with his ears, that he may testify of a truth, saith the Lord; That in all your recordings it may be arecorded in heaven; whatsoever you bbind on earth, may be bound in heaven; whatsoever you loose on earth, may be loosed in heaven; For I am about to arestore many things to the earth, pertaining to the bpriesthood, saith the Lord of Hosts.
And again, let all the arecords be had in order, that they may be put in the archives of my holy temple, to be held in remembrance from generation to generation, saith the Lord of Hosts.
I will say to all the saints, that I desired, with exceedingly great desire, to have addressed them from the stand on the subject of baptism for the dead, on the following Sabbath.
But inasmuch as it is out of my power to do so, I will write the word of the Lord from time to time, on that subject, and send it to you by mail, as well as many other things.
I now close my letter for the present, for the want of more time; for the enemy is on the alert, and as the Savior said, the aprince of this world cometh, but he hath nothing in me.
Behold, my prayer to God is that you all may be saved.
And I subscribe myself your servant in the Lord, prophet and aseer of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.Joseph Smith.
 As I stated to you in my letter before I left my place, that I would write to you from time to time and give you information in relation to many subjects, I now resume the subject of the abaptism for the dead, as that subject seems to occupy my mind, and press itself upon my feelings the strongest, since I have been pursued by my enemies.
I wrote a few words of revelation to you concerning a recorder.
I have had a few additional views in relation to this matter, which I now certify.
That is, it was declared in my former letter that there should be a arecorder, who should be eye-witness, and also to hear with his ears, that he might make a record of a truth before the Lord.
Now, in relation to this matter, it would be very difficult for one recorder to be present at all times, and to do all the business.
To obviate this difficulty, there can be a recorder appointed in each ward of the city, who is well qualified for taking accurate minutes; and let him be very particular and precise in taking the whole proceedings, certifying in his record that he saw with his eyes, and heard with his ears, giving the date, and names, and so forth, and the history of the whole transaction; naming also some three individuals that are present, if there be any present, who can at any time when called upon certify to the same, that in the mouth of two or three awitnesses every word may be established.
Then, let there be a general arecorder, to whom these other records can be handed, being attended with certificates over their own signatures, certifying that the record they have made is true.
Then the general church recorder can enter the record on the general church book, with the certificates and all the attending witnesses, with his own statement that he verily believes the above statement and records to be true, from his knowledge of the general character and appointment of those men by the church.
And when this is done on the general church book, the record shall be just as holy, and shall answer the ordinance just the same as if he had seen with his eyes and heard with his ears, and made a record of the same on the general church book.
You may think this order of things to be very particular; but let me tell you that it is only to answer the will of God, by conforming to the ordinance and preparation that the Lord ordained and prepared before the foundation of the world, for the asalvation of the dead who should die without a bknowledge of the gospel.
And further, I want you to remember that John the Revelator was contemplating this very subject in relation to the dead, when he declared, as you will find recorded in Revelation :—And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God; and the books were opened; and another book was opened, which is the book of life; and the dead were judged out of those things which were awritten in the books, according to their works.
You will discover in this quotation that the books were opened; and another book was opened, which was the book of life; but the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books, according to their works; consequently, the books spoken of must be the books which contained the record of their works, and refer to the arecords which are kept on the earth.
And the book which was the bbook of life is the record which is kept in heaven; the principle agreeing precisely with the doctrine which is commanded you in the revelation contained in the letter which I wrote to you previous to my leaving my place—that in all your recordings it may be recorded in heaven.
Now, the nature of this ordinance consists in the apower of the priesthood, by the revelation of Jesus Christ, wherein it is granted that whatsoever you bbind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatsoever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven.
Or, in other words, taking a different view of the translation, whatsoever you record on earth shall be recorded in heaven, and whatsoever you do not record on earth shall not be recorded in heaven; for out of the books shall your dead be judged, according to their own works, whether they themselves have attended to the cordinances in their own propria persona, or by the means of their own agents, according to the ordinance which God has prepared for their salvation from before the foundation of the world, according to the records which they have kept concerning their dead.
It may seem to some to be a very bold doctrine that we talk of—a power which records or binds on earth and binds in heaven.
Nevertheless, in all ages of the world, whenever the Lord has given a adispensation of the priesthood to any man by actual revelation, or any set of men, this power has always been given.
Hence, whatsoever those men did in bauthority, in the name of the Lord, and did it truly and faithfully, and kept a proper and faithful record of the same, it became a law on earth and in heaven, and could not be annulled, according to the decrees of the great cJehovah.
This is a faithful saying.
Who can hear it?
And again, for the precedent, Matthew :, : And I say also unto thee, That thou art Peter, and upon this arock I will build my church; and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it.
And I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven: and whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth shall be bound in heaven; and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven.
Now the great and grand secret of the whole matter, and the summum bonum of the whole subject that is lying before us, consists in obtaining the apowers of the Holy Priesthood.
For him to whom these keys are given there is no difficulty in obtaining a bknowledge of facts in relation to the csalvation of the children of men, both as well for the dead as for the living.
Herein is aglory and honor, and immortality and eternal life—The ordinance of baptism by water, to be bimmersed therein in order to answer to the likeness of the dead, that one principle might accord with the other; to be immersed in the water and come forth out of the water is in the likeness of the resurrection of the dead in coming forth out of their graves; hence, this ordinance was instituted to form a relationship with the ordinance of baptism for the dead, being in likeness of the dead.
Consequently, the abaptismal font was instituted as a similitude of the grave, and was commanded to be in a place underneath where the living are wont to assemble, to show forth the living and the dead, and that all things may have their likeness, and that they may accord one with another—that which is earthly conforming to that which is bheavenly, as Paul hath declared,  Corinthians :, , and : Howbeit that was not first which is spiritual, but that which is natural; and afterward that which is spiritual.
The first man is of the earth, earthy; the second man is the Lord from heaven.
As is the earthy, such are they also that are earthy; and as is the heavenly, such are they also that are heavenly.
And as are the records on the earth in relation to your dead, which are truly made out, so also are the records in heaven.
This, therefore, is the asealing and binding power, and, in one sense of the word, the bkeys of the kingdom, which consist in the key of cknowledge.
And now, my dearly beloved brethren and sisters, let me assure you that these are principles in relation to the dead and the living that cannot be lightly passed over, as pertaining to our salvation.
For their asalvation is necessary and essential to our salvation, as Paul says concerning the fathers—that they without us cannot be made perfect—neither can we without our dead be made bperfect.
And now, in relation to the baptism for the dead, I will give you another quotation of Paul,  Corinthians :: Else what shall they do which are baptized for the dead, if the dead rise not at all?
Why are they then baptized for the dead?
And again, in connection with this quotation I will give you a quotation from one of the prophets, who had his eye fixed on the arestoration of the priesthood, the glories to be revealed in the last days, and in an especial manner this most glorious of all subjects belonging to the everlasting gospel, namely, the baptism for the dead; for Malachi says, last chapter, verses th and th: Behold, I will send you bElijah the prophet before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord: And he shall turn the heart of the fathers to the children, and the heart of the children to their fathers, lest I come and smite the earth with a curse.
I might have rendered a aplainer translation to this, but it is sufficiently plain to suit my purpose as it stands.
It is sufficient to know, in this case, that the earth will be smitten with a bcurse unless there is a welding clink of some kind or other between the fathers and the dchildren, upon some subject or other—and behold what is that subject?
It is the ebaptism for the dead.
For we without them cannot be made perfect; neither can they without us be made perfect.
Neither can they nor we be made perfect without those who have died in the gospel also; for it is necessary in the ushering in of the dispensation of the ffulness of times, which dispensation is now beginning to usher in, that a whole and complete and perfect union, and welding together of dispensations, and keys, and powers, and glories should take place, and be revealed from the days of Adam even to the present time.
And not only this, but those things which never have been revealed from the gfoundation of the world, but have been kept hid from the wise and prudent, shall be revealed unto hbabes and sucklings in this, the dispensation of the fulness of times.
Now, what do we hear in the gospel which we have received?
A voice of agladness!
A voice of mercy from heaven; and a voice of btruth out of the earth; glad tidings for the dead; a voice of gladness for the living and the dead; glad tidings of great cjoy.
How beautiful upon the mountains are the dfeet of those that bring glad tidings of good things, and that say unto Zion: Behold, thy God reigneth!
As the edews of Carmel, so shall the knowledge of God descend upon them!
And again, what do we hear?
Glad tidings from aCumorah!
bMoroni, an angel from heaven, declaring the fulfilment of the prophets—the cbook to be revealed.
A voice of the Lord in the wilderness of Fayette, Seneca county, declaring the three witnesses to dbear record of the book!
The voice of eMichael on the banks of the Susquehanna, detecting the fdevil when he appeared as an angel of glight!
The voice of hPeter, James, and John in the wilderness between Harmony, Susquehanna county, and Colesville, Broome county, on the Susquehanna river, declaring themselves as possessing the ikeys of the kingdom, and of the dispensation of the fulness of times!
And again, the voice of God in the chamber of old aFather Whitmer, in Fayette, Seneca county, and at sundry times, and in divers places through all the travels and tribulations of this Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints!
And the voice of Michael, the archangel; the voice of bGabriel, and of Raphael, and of divers cangels, from Michael or dAdam down to the present time, all declaring their edispensation, their rights, their fkeys, their honors, their majesty and glory, and the power of their priesthood; giving line upon line, gprecept upon precept; here a little, and there a little; giving us consolation by holding forth that which is to come, confirming our hhope!
Brethren, shall we not go on in so great a cause?
Go forward and not backward.
aCourage, brethren; and on, on to the victory!
Let your hearts rejoice, and be exceedingly glad.
Let the earth break forth into bsinging.
Let the cdead speak forth anthems of eternal praise to the dKing Immanuel, who hath ordained, before the world was, that which would enable us to eredeem them out of their fprison; for the prisoners shall go free.
Let the amountains shout for joy, and all ye valleys cry aloud; and all ye seas and dry lands tell the wonders of your Eternal King!
And ye rivers, and brooks, and rills, flow down with gladness.
Let the woods and all the trees of the field praise the Lord; and ye solid brocks weep for joy!
And let the sun, moon, and the cmorning stars sing together, and let all the sons of God shout for joy!
And let the eternal creations declare his name forever and ever!
And again I say, how glorious is the voice we hear from heaven, proclaiming in our ears, glory, and salvation, and honor, and dimmortality, and eternal life; kingdoms, principalities, and powers!
Behold, the great aday of the Lord is at hand; and who can babide the day of his coming, and who can stand when he appeareth?
For he is like a crefiner’s dfire, and like fuller’s soap; and he shall sit as a erefiner and purifier of silver, and he shall purify the sons of fLevi, and purge them as gold and silver, that they may offer unto the Lord an goffering in righteousness.
Let us, therefore, as a church and a people, and as Latter-day Saints, offer unto the Lord an offering in righteousness; and let us present in his holy temple, when it is finished, a book containing the hrecords of our dead, which shall be worthy of all acceptation.
Brethren, I have many things to say to you on the subject; but shall now close for the present, and continue the subject another time.
I am, as ever, your humble servant and never deviating friend,Joseph Smith.
 There are two kinds of beings in aheaven, namely: bAngels, who are cresurrected personages, having dbodies of flesh and bones— For instance, Jesus said: Handle me and see, for a spirit hath not aflesh and bones, as ye see me have.
Secondly: the aspirits of bjust men made cperfect, they who are not resurrected, but inherit the same glory.
When a messenger comes saying he has a message from God, offer him your hand and request him to shake hands with you.
If he be an angel he will do so, and you will feel his hand.
If he be the spirit of a just man made perfect he will come in his glory; for that is the only way he can appear— Ask him to shake hands with you, but he will not move, because it is contrary to the aorder of heaven for a just man to bdeceive; but he will still deliver his message.
If it be the adevil as an angel of light, when you ask him to shake hands he will offer you his hand, and you will not bfeel anything; you may therefore detect him.
These are three grand akeys whereby you may know whether any administration is from God.
 Upon you my fellow servants, in the name of Messiah I aconfer the bPriesthood of Aaron, which holds the ckeys of the ministering of dangels, and of the gospel of erepentance, and of fbaptism by immersion for the remission of sins; and this shall never be taken again from the earth, until the gsons of Levi do offer again an offering unto the Lord in hrighteousness.
 When the Savior shall aappear we shall see him as he is.
We shall see that he is a bman like ourselves.
And that same asociality which exists among us here will exist among us there, only it will be coupled with beternal glory, which glory we do not now enjoy.
John :—The aappearing of the Father and the Son, in that verse, is a personal bappearance; and the idea that the Father and the Son cdwell in a man’s heart is an old sectarian notion, and is false.
In answer to the question—Is not the reckoning of God’s atime, angel’s time, prophet’s time, and man’s time, according to the planet on which they reside?
I answer, Yes.
But there are no aangels who bminister to this earth but those who do belong or have belonged to it.
The angels do not reside on a planet like this earth; But athey reside in the bpresence of God, on a globe clike a dsea of glass and efire, where all things for their glory are manifest, past, present, and future, and are continually before the Lord.
The place where God resides is a great aUrim and Thummim.
This aearth, in its bsanctified and cimmortal state, will be made like unto dcrystal and will be a Urim and Thummim to the inhabitants who dwell thereon, whereby all things pertaining to an inferior kingdom, or all kingdoms of a lower order, will be manifest to those who dwell on it; and this earth will be eChrist’s.
Then the white astone mentioned in Revelation :, will become a Urim and Thummim to each individual who receives one, whereby things pertaining to a bhigher order of kingdoms will be made known; And a awhite stone is given to each of those who come into the celestial kingdom, whereon is a new bname written, which no man knoweth save he that receiveth it.
The new name is the key word.
I prophesy, in the name of the Lord God, that the commencement of the adifficulties which will cause much bloodshed previous to the coming of the Son of Man will be in South Carolina.
It may probably arise through the slave question.
This a avoice declared to me, while I was praying earnestly on the subject, December th, .
I was once praying very earnestly to know the time of the acoming of the Son of Man, when I heard a voice repeat the following: Joseph, my son, if thou livest until thou art eighty-five years old, thou shalt see the face of the Son of Man; therefore alet this suffice, and trouble me no more on this matter.
I was left thus, without being able to decide whether this coming referred to the beginning of the millennium or to some previous appearing, or whether I should die and thus see his face.
I believe the coming of the Son of Man will not be any sooner than that time.
Whatever principle of aintelligence we attain unto in this life, it will rise with us in the bresurrection.
And if a person gains more aknowledge and intelligence in this life through his bdiligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the cadvantage in the world to come.
There is a alaw, irrevocably decreed in bheaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all cblessings are predicated— And when we obtain any ablessing from God, it is by bobedience to that law upon which it is predicated.
The aFather has a bbody of flesh and bones as tangible as man’s; the Son also; but the Holy Ghost has not a body of flesh and bones, but is a personage of cSpirit.
Were it not so, the Holy Ghost could not ddwell in us.
A man may receive the aHoly Ghost, and it may descend upon him and not btarry with him.
 In the acelestial glory there are three bheavens or degrees; And in order to obtain the ahighest, a man must enter into this border of the cpriesthood [meaning the dnew and everlasting covenant of emarriage]; And if he does not, he cannot obtain it.
He may enter into the other, but that is the end of his kingdom; he cannot have an aincrease.
(May th, .)
The more sure word of aprophecy means a man’s knowing that he is bsealed up unto ceternal life, by revelation and the spirit of prophecy, through the power of the Holy Priesthood.
It is impossible for a man to be asaved in bignorance.
There is no such thing as immaterial matter.
All aspirit is matter, but it is more fine or pure, and can only be discerned by bpurer eyes; We cannot asee it; but when our bodies are purified we shall see that it is all bmatter.
 We believe that agovernments were instituted of God for the benefit of man; and that he holds men baccountable for their acts in relation to them, both in making laws and administering them, for the good and safety of society.
We believe that no government can exist in apeace, except such laws are framed and held inviolate as will secure to each individual the bfree exercise of cconscience, the right and control of property, and the dprotection of life.
We believe that all governments necessarily require acivil bofficers and magistrates to enforce the laws of the same; and that such as will administer the law in equity and justice should be sought for and upheld by the voice of the people if a republic, or the will of the sovereign.
We believe that religion is instituted of God; and that men are amenable to him, and to him only, for the exercise of it, unless their religious opinions prompt them to infringe upon the rights and liberties of others; but we do not believe that human law has a right to interfere in prescribing rules of aworship to bind the consciences of men, nor dictate forms for public or private devotion; that the civil magistrate should restrain crime, but never control conscience; should punish bguilt, but never suppress the freedom of the soul.
We believe that all men are bound to asustain and uphold the respective bgovernments in which they reside, while protected in their inherent and inalienable rights by the laws of such governments; and that sedition and crebellion are unbecoming every citizen thus protected, and should be punished accordingly; and that all governments have a right to enact such laws as in their own judgments are best calculated to secure the public interest; at the same time, however, holding sacred the freedom of conscience.
We believe that every man should be ahonored in his station, rulers and magistrates as such, being placed for the protection of the innocent and the punishment of the guilty; and that to the blaws all men owe crespect and deference, as without them peace and harmony would be supplanted by anarchy and terror; human laws being instituted for the express purpose of regulating our interests as individuals and nations, between man and man; and divine laws given of heaven, prescribing rules on spiritual concerns, for faith and worship, both to be answered by man to his Maker.
We believe that rulers, states, and governments have a right, and are bound to enact laws for the protection of all acitizens in the free exercise of their religious bbelief; but we do not believe that they have a right in justice to deprive citizens of this privilege, or proscribe them in their opinions, so long as a regard and reverence are shown to the laws and such religious opinions do not justify sedition nor conspiracy.
We believe that the commission of crime should be apunished according to the nature of the offense; that murder, treason, robbery, theft, and the breach of the general peace, in all respects, should be punished according to their criminality and their tendency to evil among men, by the laws of that government in which the offense is committed; and for the public bpeace and tranquility all men should step forward and use their ability in bringing coffenders against good laws to punishment.
We do not believe it just to amingle religious influence with civil government, whereby one religious society is fostered and another proscribed in its spiritual privileges, and the individual rights of its members, as citizens, denied.
We believe that all religious societies have a right to deal with their members for disorderly conduct, aaccording to the rules and regulations of such societies; provided that such dealings be for fellowship and good standing; but we do not believe that any religious society has bauthority to try men on the right of property or life, to take from them this world’s goods, or to put them in jeopardy of either life or limb, or to inflict any physical punishment upon them.
They can only excommunicate them from their society, and withdraw from them their fellowship.
We believe that men should appeal to the civil law for redress of all awrongs and grievances, where personal abuse is inflicted or the right of property or character infringed, where such laws exist as will protect the same; but we believe that all men are justified in bdefending themselves, their friends, and property, and the government, from the unlawful assaults and encroachments of all persons in times of exigency, where immediate appeal cannot be made to the laws, and relief afforded.
We believe it just to apreach the gospel to the nations of the earth, and warn the righteous to save themselves from the corruption of the world; but we do not believe it right to interfere with bbond-servants, neither preach the gospel to, nor baptize them contrary to the will and wish of their masters, nor to meddle with or influence them in the least to cause them to be dissatisfied with their situations in this life, thereby jeopardizing the lives of men; such interference we believe to be unlawful and unjust, and dangerous to the peace of every government allowing human beings to be held in cservitude.
 On the third of October, in the year nineteen hundred and eighteen, I sat in my room apondering over the scriptures; And areflecting upon the great batoning csacrifice that was made by the Son of God, for the dredemption of the world; And the great and wonderful alove made manifest by the Father and the Son in the coming of the bRedeemer into the world; That through his aatonement, and by bobedience to the principles of the gospel, mankind might be saved.
While I was thus engaged, my mind reverted to the writings of the apostle Peter, to the aprimitive saints scattered abroad throughout bPontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, and other parts of Asia, where the gospel had been cpreached after the crucifixion of the Lord.
I opened the Bible and read the athird and fourth chapters of the first epistle of Peter, and as I read I was greatly bimpressed, more than I had ever been before, with the following passages: “For Christ also hath once suffered for sins, the just for the unjust, that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh, but quickened by the Spirit: “By which also he went and preached unto the spirits in aprison; “Which sometime were disobedient, when once the longsuffering of God waited in the days of Noah, while the ark was a preparing, wherein few, that is, eight souls were saved by water.” ( Peter :–.)
“For for this cause was the gospel preached also to them that are dead, that they might be judged according to men in the flesh, but live according to God in the spirit.” ( Peter :.)
As I apondered over these things which are bwritten, the ceyes of my dunderstanding were opened, and the Spirit of the Lord erested upon me, and I saw the hosts of the fdead, both small and great.
And there were gathered together in one place an innumerable company of the spirits of the ajust, who had been bfaithful in the ctestimony of Jesus while they lived in mortality; And who had offered asacrifice in the bsimilitude of the great sacrifice of the Son of God, and had suffered ctribulation in their Redeemer’s dname.
All these had departed the mortal life, firm in the ahope of a glorious bresurrection, through the cgrace of God the dFather and his eOnly Begotten Son, Jesus Christ.
I beheld that they were filled with ajoy and gladness, and were rejoicing together because the day of their bdeliverance was at hand.
They were assembled awaiting the advent of the Son of God into the aspirit world, to declare their bredemption from the cbands of death.
Their sleeping adust was to be brestored unto its cperfect frame, dbone to his bone, and the sinews and the flesh upon them, the espirit and the body to be united never again to be divided, that they might receive a fulness of fjoy.
While this vast multitude waited and conversed, rejoicing in the hour of their adeliverance from the chains of death, the Son of God appeared, declaring bliberty to the ccaptives who had been faithful; And there he apreached to them the everlasting bgospel, the doctrine of the cresurrection and the redemption of mankind from the dfall, and from individual sins on conditions of erepentance.
But unto the awicked he did not go, and among the ungodly and the unrepentant who had bdefiled themselves while in the flesh, his voice was not raised; Neither did the arebellious who rejected the btestimonies and the warnings of the ancient cprophets behold his dpresence, nor look upon his face.
Where these were, adarkness reigned, but among the righteous there was bpeace; And the saints rejoiced in their aredemption, and bowed the bknee and acknowledged the Son of God as their Redeemer and Deliverer from death and the cchains of dhell.
Their countenances ashone, and the bradiance from the presence of the Lord rested upon them, and they csang praises unto his holy name.
I marveled, for I understood that the Savior spent about three years in his aministry among the Jews and those of the house of Israel, endeavoring to bteach them the everlasting gospel and call them unto repentance; And yet, notwithstanding his mighty works, and miracles, and proclamation of the truth, in great apower and authority, there were but bfew who hearkened to his voice, and rejoiced in his presence, and received salvation at his hands.
But his ministry among those who were dead was limited to the abrief time intervening between the crucifixion and his resurrection; And I wondered at the words of Peter—wherein he said that the Son of God preached unto the aspirits in prison, who sometime were disobedient, when once the long-suffering of God waited in the days of Noah—and how it was possible for him to preach to those spirits and perform the necessary labor among them in so short a time.
And as I wondered, my eyes were opened, and my understanding aquickened, and I perceived that the Lord went not in person among the bwicked and the disobedient who had rejected the truth, to teach them; But behold, from among the righteous, he aorganized his forces and appointed bmessengers, cclothed with power and authority, and dcommissioned them to go forth and carry the light of the gospel to them that were in edarkness, even to fall the spirits of men; and thus was the gospel preached to the dead.
And the chosen messengers went forth to declare the aacceptable day of the Lord and proclaim bliberty to the captives who were bound, even unto all who would crepent of their sins and receive the gospel.
Thus was the gospel preached to those who had adied in their sins, without a bknowledge of the truth, or in ctransgression, having drejected the prophets.
These were taught afaith in God, repentance from sin, bvicarious baptism for the cremission of sins, the dgift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands, And all other principles of the gospel that were necessary for them to know in order to qualify themselves that they might be ajudged according to men in the flesh, but live according to God in the spirit.
And so it was made known among the dead, both small and great, the unrighteous as well as the faithful, that redemption had been wrought through the asacrifice of the Son of God upon the bcross.
Thus was it made known that our Redeemer spent his time during his sojourn in the world of aspirits, instructing and preparing the faithful spirits of the bprophets who had testified of him in the flesh; That they might carry the message of redemption unto all the dead, unto whom he could not go personally, because of their arebellion and transgression, that they through the ministration of his servants might also hear his words.
Among the great and amighty ones who were assembled in this vast congregation of the righteous were Father bAdam, the cAncient of Days and father of all, And our glorious aMother bEve, with many of her faithful cdaughters who had lived through the ages and worshiped the true and living God.
aAbel, the first bmartyr, was there, and his brother cSeth, one of the mighty ones, who was in the express dimage of his father, Adam.
aNoah, who gave warning of the flood; bShem, the great chigh priest; dAbraham, the father of the faithful; eIsaac, fJacob, and Moses, the great glaw-giver of Israel; And aIsaiah, who declared by prophecy that the Redeemer was anointed to bind up the broken-hearted, to proclaim liberty to the bcaptives, and the opening of the cprison to them that were bound, were also there.
Moreover, Ezekiel, who was shown in vision the great valley of adry bones, which were to be bclothed upon with flesh, to come forth again in the resurrection of the dead, living souls; Daniel, who foresaw and foretold the establishment of the akingdom of God in the latter days, never again to be destroyed nor given to other people; aElias, who was with Moses on the Mount of Transfiguration; And aMalachi, the prophet who testified of the coming of bElijah—of whom also Moroni spake to the Prophet Joseph Smith, declaring that he should come before the ushering in of the great and dreadful cday of the Lord—were also there.
The Prophet Elijah was to plant in the ahearts of the children the promises made to their fathers, Foreshadowing the great work to be done in the atemples of the Lord in the bdispensation of the fulness of times, for the redemption of the dead, and the csealing of the children to their parents, lest the whole earth be smitten with a curse and utterly wasted at his coming.
All these and many more, even the aprophets who dwelt among the Nephites and btestified of the coming of the Son of God, mingled in the vast assembly and waited for their deliverance, For the adead had looked upon the long absence of their bspirits from their bodies as a cbondage.
These the Lord taught, and gave them apower to come forth, after his resurrection from the dead, to enter into his Father’s kingdom, there to be crowned with bimmortality and eternal life, And continue thenceforth their labor as had been promised by the Lord, and be partakers of all ablessings which were held in reserve for them that love him.
The Prophet Joseph Smith, and my father, Hyrum Smith, Brigham Young, John Taylor, Wilford Woodruff, and other choice aspirits who were breserved to come forth in the cfulness of times to take part in laying the dfoundations of the great latter-day work, Including the building of the atemples and the performance of ordinances therein for the redemption of the bdead, were also in the spirit world.
I observed that they were also among the anoble and great ones who were bchosen in the beginning to be rulers in the Church of God.
Even before they were born, they, with many others, received their first alessons in the world of spirits and were bprepared to come forth in the due ctime of the Lord to labor in his dvineyard for the salvation of the souls of men.
I beheld that the faithful aelders of this dispensation, when they depart from mortal life, continue their labors in the bpreaching of the cgospel of repentance and redemption, through the sacrifice of the Only Begotten Son of God, among those who are in darkness and under the bondage of sin in the great world of the dspirits of the dead.
The dead who arepent will be redeemed, through obedience to the bordinances of the house of God, And after they have paid the apenalty of their transgressions, and are bwashed clean, shall receive a creward according to their dworks, for they are heirs of salvation.
Thus was the avision of the redemption of the dead revealed to me, and I bear record, and I know that this brecord is ctrue, through the blessing of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, even so.
Amen.
 aA great and marvelous work is about to come forth unto the children of men.
Behold, I am God; give heed to my word, which is quick and powerful, sharper than a two-edged sword, to the dividing asunder of both joints and marrow; therefore give heed unto my word.
Behold, the field is white already to harvest; therefore, whoso desireth to reap let him thrust in his sickle with his might, and reap while the day lasts, that he may treasure up for his soul everlasting salvation in the kingdom of God.
Yea, whosoever will thrust in his sickle and reap, the same is called of God.
Therefore, if you will ask of me you shall receive; if you will aknock it shall be opened unto you.
Seek to bring forth and establish my Zion.
Keep my commandments in all things.
And, if you akeep my commandments and bendure to the end you shall have ceternal life, which gift is the greatest of all the gifts of God.
And it shall come to pass, that if you shall ask the Father in my name, in faith abelieving, you shall receive the bHoly Ghost, which cgiveth utterance, that you may stand as a dwitness of the things of which you shall both ehear and see, and also that you may declare frepentance unto this generation.
Behold, I am aJesus Christ, the bSon of the cliving God, who dcreated the heavens and the eearth, a flight which cannot be hid in gdarkness; Wherefore, I must bring forth the afulness of my bgospel from the cGentiles unto the house of Israel.
And behold, thou art David, and thou art called to assist; which thing if ye do, and are faithful, ye shall be blessed both spiritually and temporally, and great shall be your reward.
Amen.
 Hearken, my servant John, and listen to the words of Jesus Christ, your Lord and your Redeemer.
For behold, I speak unto you with asharpness and with power, for mine arm is over all the bearth.
And I will atell you that which no man bknoweth save me and thee alone— For many times you have desired of me to know that which would be of the most worth unto you.
Behold, blessed are you for this thing, and for speaking my words which I have given you according to my commandments.
And now, behold, I say unto you, that the thing which will be of the most worth unto you will be to adeclare brepentance unto this people, that you may bring csouls unto me, that you may drest with them in the ekingdom of my fFather.
Amen.
 aHearken, my servant Peter, and listen to the words of Jesus Christ, your Lord and your Redeemer.
For behold, I speak unto you with sharpness and with power, for mine arm is over all the earth.
And I will tell you that which no man knoweth save me and thee alone— For many times you have desired of me to know that which would be of the most worth unto you.
Behold, blessed are you for this thing, and for speaking my words which I have given unto you according to my commandments.
And now, behold, I say unto you, that the thing which will be of the most worth unto you will be to declare repentance unto this people, that you may bring souls unto me, that you may rest with them in the kingdom of my Father.
Amen.
 Behold, I say unto you, that you must rely upon my word, which if you do with full purpose of heart, you shall have a aview of the bplates, and also of the cbreastplate, the dsword of Laban, the eUrim and Thummim, which were given to the fbrother of Jared upon the mount, when he talked with the Lord gface to face, and the hmiraculous directors which were given to Lehi while in the wilderness, on the borders of the iRed Sea.
And it is by your faith that you shall obtain a view of them, even by that faith which was had by the prophets of old.
And after that you have obtained faith, and have seen them with your eyes, you shall atestify of them, by the power of God; And this you shall do that my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., may not be destroyed, that I may bring about my righteous purposes unto the children of men in this work.
And ye shall testify that you have seen them, even as my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., has seen them; for it is by my power that he has seen them, and it is because he had faith.
And he has translated the abook, even that bpart which I have commanded him, and as your Lord and your God liveth it is true.
Wherefore, you have received the same power, and the same faith, and the same gift like unto him; And if you do these last acommandments of mine, which I have given you, the bgates of hell shall not prevail against you; for my cgrace is sufficient for you, and you shall be dlifted up at the last day.
And I, Jesus Christ, your aLord and your God, have spoken it unto you, that I might bring about my righteous purposes unto the children of men.
Amen.
 I am aAlpha and Omega, bChrist the Lord; yea, even I am he, the beginning and the end, the Redeemer of the cworld.
I, having accomplished and afinished the will of him whose I am, even the Father, concerning me—having done this that I might bsubdue all things unto myself— Retaining all apower, even to the bdestroying of Satan and his works at the cend of the world, and the last great day of judgment, which I shall pass upon the inhabitants thereof, djudging every man according to his eworks and the deeds which he hath done.
And surely every man must arepent or bsuffer, for I, God, am cendless.
Wherefore, I arevoke not the judgments which I shall pass, but woes shall go forth, weeping, bwailing and gnashing of teeth, yea, to those who are found on my cleft hand.
Nevertheless, it is anot written that there shall be no end to this torment, but it is written bendless ctorment.
Again, it is written aeternal damnation; wherefore it is more express than other scriptures, that it might work upon the hearts of the children of men, altogether for my name’s glory.
Wherefore, I will explain unto you this amystery, for it is meet unto you to know even as mine apostles.
I speak unto you that are chosen in this thing, even as one, that you may enter into my arest.
For, behold, the amystery of godliness, how great is it!
For, behold, I am bendless, and the punishment which is given from my hand is endless cpunishment, for dEndless is my name.
Wherefore— aEternal punishment is God’s punishment.
Endless punishment is God’s punishment.
Wherefore, I command you to repent, and keep the acommandments which you have received by the hand of my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., in my name; And it is by my almighty power that you have received them; Therefore I command you to repent—repent, lest I asmite you by the rod of my mouth, and by my wrath, and by my anger, and your bsufferings be sore—how sore you know not, how exquisite you know not, yea, how hard to bear you know not.
For behold, I, God, have asuffered these things for all, that they bmight not suffer if they would crepent; But if they would not repent they must asuffer even as I; Which asuffering caused myself, even God, the greatest of all, to tremble because of pain, and to bleed at every pore, and to suffer both body and spirit—and would that I might bnot drink the bitter cup, and shrink— Nevertheless, glory be to the Father, and I partook and afinished my preparations unto the children of men.
Wherefore, I command you again to repent, lest I ahumble you with my almighty power; and that you bconfess your sins, lest you suffer these cpunishments of which I have spoken, of which in the smallest, yea, even in the least degree you have dtasted at the time I withdrew my Spirit.
And I command you that you apreach naught but repentance, and show bnot these things unto the world until it is wisdom in me.
For they cannot abear meat now, but bmilk they must receive; wherefore, they must not know these things, lest they perish.
aLearn of me, and listen to my words; bwalk in the cmeekness of my Spirit, and you shall have dpeace in me.
I am Jesus Christ; I acame by the bwill of the Father, and I do his will.
And again, I command thee that thou shalt not acovet thy bneighbor’s cwife; nor seek thy neighbor’s life.
And again, I command thee that thou shalt not acovet thine own property, but impart it freely to the printing of the Book of Mormon, which contains the btruth and the word of God— Which is my word to the aGentile, that soon it may go to the bJew, of whom the Lamanites are a cremnant, that they may believe the gospel, and look not for a dMessiah to come who has already come.
And again, I command thee that thou shalt apray bvocally as well as in thy heart; yea, before the world as well as in secret, in public as well as in private.
And thou shalt adeclare glad tidings, yea, bpublish it upon the mountains, and upon every high place, and among every people that thou shalt be permitted to see.
And thou shalt do it with all humility, atrusting in me, breviling not against revilers.
And of atenets thou shalt not talk, but thou shalt declare repentance and bfaith on the Savior, and cremission of sins by dbaptism, and by efire, yea, even the fHoly Ghost.
Behold, this is a great and the last acommandment which I shall give unto you concerning this matter; for this shall suffice for thy daily walk, even unto the end of thy life.
And misery thou shalt receive if thou wilt slight these acounsels, yea, even the destruction of thyself and property.
aImpart a portion of thy property, yea, even part of thy lands, and all save the support of thy bfamily.
Pay the adebt thou hast bcontracted with the printer.
Release thyself from cbondage.
aLeave thy house and home, except when thou shalt desire to see thy family; And aspeak freely to all; yea, preach, exhort, declare the btruth, even with a loud voice, with a sound of rejoicing, crying—Hosanna, hosanna, blessed be the name of the Lord God!
aPray always, and I will bpour out my Spirit upon you, and great shall be your blessing—yea, even more than if you should obtain ctreasures of earth and corruptibleness to the extent thereof.
Behold, canst thou read this without arejoicing and lifting up thy heart for bgladness?
Or canst thou run about longer as a ablind guide?
Or canst thou be ahumble and meek, and conduct thyself wisely before me?
Yea, bcome unto me thy Savior.
Amen.
 Behold, I will reveal unto you the Priesthood, by the hand of aElijah the prophet, before the coming of the great and bdreadful day of the Lord.
And ahe shall plant in the hearts of the children the bpromises made to the fathers, and the hearts of the children shall turn to their fathers.
If it were not so, the whole aearth would be utterly wasted at his coming.
 The arise of the bChurch of Christ in these last days, being one thousand eight hundred and thirty years since the ccoming of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ in the flesh, it being regularly dorganized and established agreeable to the elaws of our country, by the will and commandments of God, in the fourth month, and on the sixth day of the month which is called April— Which commandments were given to Joseph Smith, Jun., who was acalled of God, and bordained an capostle of Jesus Christ, to be the dfirst eelder of this church; And to Oliver Cowdery, who was also called of God, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to be the asecond elder of this church, and ordained under his hand; And this according to the agrace of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, to whom be all glory, both now and forever.
Amen.
After it was truly manifested unto this first elder that he had received a aremission of his sins, he was bentangled again in the cvanities of the world; But after arepenting, and humbling himself sincerely, through faith, God ministered unto him by an holy bangel, whose ccountenance was as lightning, and whose garments were pure and white above all other whiteness; And gave unto him acommandments which inspired him; And agave him power from on high, by the bmeans which were before prepared, to translate the Book of Mormon; Which contains a arecord of a fallen people, and the bfulness of the cgospel of Jesus Christ to the Gentiles and to the Jews also; Which was given by inspiration, and is confirmed to aothers by the ministering of angels, and is bdeclared unto the world by them— Proving to the world that the holy scriptures are atrue, and that God does binspire men and call them to his choly work in this age and generation, as well as in generations of old; Thereby showing that he is the asame God yesterday, today, and bforever.
Amen.
Therefore, having so great witnesses, by athem shall the world be judged, even as many as shall hereafter come to a knowledge of this work.
And those who receive it in faith, and work arighteousness, shall receive a bcrown of eternal life; But those who aharden their hearts in bunbelief, and creject it, it shall turn to their own dcondemnation— For the Lord God has spoken it; and we, the elders of the church, have heard and bear awitness to the words of the glorious Majesty on high, to whom be glory forever and ever.
Amen.
By these things we aknow that there is a bGod in heaven, who is infinite and ceternal, from everlasting to everlasting the same dunchangeable God, the framer of heaven and earth, and all things which are in them; And that he acreated man, male and female, after his own bimage and in his own likeness, created he them; And gave unto them commandments that they should alove and bserve him, the only cliving and true dGod, and that he should be the only being whom they should worship.
But by the atransgression of these holy laws man became bsensual and cdevilish, and became dfallen man.
Wherefore, the Almighty God gave his aOnly Begotten Son, as it is written in those scriptures which have been given of him.
He asuffered btemptations but gave no heed unto them.
He was acrucified, bdied, and crose again the third day; And aascended into heaven, to sit down on the right hand of the bFather, to creign with almighty power according to the will of the Father; That as many as would abelieve and be baptized in his holy name, and bendure in faith to the end, should be saved— Not only those who believed after he came in the ameridian of time, in the bflesh, but all those from the beginning, even as many as were before he came, who believed in the words of the holy prophets, who cspake as they were inspired by the dgift of the Holy Ghost, who truly etestified of him in all things, should have eternal life, As well as those who should come after, who should believe in the agifts and callings of God by the Holy Ghost, which bbeareth record of the Father and of the Son; Which Father, Son, and Holy Ghost are aone God, infinite and eternal, without end.
Amen.
And we know that all men must arepent and bbelieve on the name of Jesus Christ, and worship the Father in his name, and cendure in dfaith on his name to the end, or they cannot be esaved in the kingdom of God.
And we know that ajustification through the bgrace of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ is just and true; And we know also, that asanctification through the grace of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ is just and true, to all those who blove and serve God with all their cmights, minds, and strength.
But there is a possibility that man may afall from bgrace and depart from the living God; Therefore let the church take heed and pray always, lest they fall into atemptation; Yea, and even let those who are asanctified take heed also.
And we know that these things are true and according to the revelations of John, neither aadding to, nor diminishing from the prophecy of his book, the holy scriptures, or the revelations of God which shall come hereafter by the gift and power of the Holy Ghost, the bvoice of God, or the ministering of angels.
And the Lord God has aspoken it; and honor, power and glory be rendered to his holy bname, both now and ever.
Amen.
And again, by way of commandment to the church concerning the manner of baptism—All those who ahumble themselves before God, and desire to be baptized, and come forth with broken hearts and bcontrite spirits, and witness before the church that they have truly repented of all their sins, and are willing to take upon them the cname of Jesus Christ, having a ddetermination to serve him to the end, and truly manifest by their eworks that they have received of the fSpirit of Christ unto the gremission of their sins, shall be received by baptism into his church.
The aduty of the elders, priests, teachers, deacons, and members of the church of Christ—An bapostle is an celder, and it is his calling to dbaptize; And to aordain other elders, priests, teachers, and deacons; And to administer abread and wine—the bemblems of the flesh and blood of Christ— And to aconfirm those who are baptized into the church, by the laying on of bhands for the baptism of fire and the Holy Ghost, according to the scriptures; And to teach, expound, exhort, baptize, and watch over the church; And to confirm the church by the laying on of the hands, and the giving of the Holy Ghost; And to take the alead of all meetings.
The elders are to aconduct the bmeetings as they are cled by the Holy Ghost, according to the commandments and revelations of God.
The apriest’s duty is to preach, bteach, expound, exhort, and baptize, and administer the sacrament, And visit the house of each member, and exhort them to apray bvocally and in secret and attend to all cfamily duties.
And he may also aordain other priests, teachers, and deacons.
And he is to take the alead of meetings when there is no elder present; But when there is an elder present, he is only to preach, teach, expound, exhort, and baptize, And visit the house of each member, exhorting them to pray vocally and in secret and attend to all family duties.
In all these duties the priest is to aassist the elder if occasion requires.
The ateacher’s duty is to bwatch over the cchurch always, and be with and strengthen them; And see that there is no iniquity in the church, neither ahardness with each other, neither lying, bbackbiting, nor cevil dspeaking; And see that the church meet together often, and also see that all the members do their duty.
And he is to take the lead of meetings in the absence of the elder or priest— And is to be assisted always, in all his duties in the church, by the adeacons, if occasion requires.
But neither teachers nor deacons have authority to baptize, administer the asacrament, or lay on bhands; They are, however, to warn, expound, exhort, and teach, and invite all to come unto Christ.
Every aelder, bpriest, teacher, or deacon is to be cordained daccording to the gifts and callings of God unto him; and he is to be eordained by the power of the Holy Ghost, which is in the one who ordains him.
The several elders composing this church of Christ are to ameet in conference once in three months, or from time to time as said conferences shall direct or appoint; And said conferences are to do whatever church business is necessary to be done at the time.
The elders are to receive their licenses from other elders, by avote of the church to which they belong, or from the conferences.
Each priest, teacher, or deacon, who is ordained by a priest, may take a certificate from him at the time, which acertificate, when presented to an elder, shall entitle him to a license, which shall authorize him to perform the duties of his calling, or he may receive it from a conference.
No person is to be aordained to any office in this church, where there is a regularly organized branch of the same, without the bvote of that church; But the presiding elders, traveling bishops, high councilors, high priests, and elders, may have the privilege of ordaining, where there is no branch of the church that a vote may be called.
Every president of the high priesthood (or presiding elder), abishop, high councilor, and bhigh priest, is to be ordained by the direction of a chigh council or general conference.
The aduty of the members after they are received by bbaptism—The elders or priests are to have a sufficient time to expound all things concerning the church of Christ to their cunderstanding, previous to their partaking of the dsacrament and being confirmed by the laying on of the ehands of the elders, so that all things may be done in forder.
And the members shall manifest before the church, and also before the elders, by a agodly walk and conversation, that they are worthy of it, that there may be works and bfaith agreeable to the holy scriptures—walking in choliness before the Lord.
Every member of the church of Christ having achildren is to bring them unto the elders before the church, who are to lay their bhands upon them in the name of Jesus Christ, and bless them in his name.
No one can be received into the church of Christ unless he has arrived unto the years of aaccountability before God, and is capable of brepentance.
aBaptism is to be administered in the following manner unto all those who repent— The person who is called of God and has authority from Jesus Christ to baptize, shall go down into the water with the person who has presented himself or herself for baptism, and shall say, calling him or her by name: Having been commissioned of Jesus Christ, I baptize you in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost.
Amen.
Then shall he aimmerse him or her in the water, and come forth again out of the water.
It is expedient that the church ameet together often to bpartake of cbread and wine in the dremembrance of the Lord Jesus; And the elder or priest shall administer it; and after this amanner shall he administer it—he shall kneel with the church and call upon the Father in solemn prayer, saying: O God, the Eternal Father, we ask thee in the name of thy Son, Jesus Christ, to bless and sanctify this abread to the souls of all those who partake of it, that they may eat in remembrance of the body of thy Son, and bwitness unto thee, O God, the Eternal Father, that they are willing to take upon them the name of thy Son, and always remember him and keep his ccommandments which he has given them; that they may always have his dSpirit to be with them.
Amen.
The amanner of administering the wine—he shall take the bcup also, and say: O God, the Eternal Father, we ask thee in the name of thy Son, Jesus Christ, to bless and sanctify this awine to the souls of all those who drink of it, that they may do it in remembrance of the blood of thy Son, which was shed for them; that they may witness unto thee, O God, the Eternal Father, that they do always remember him, that they may have his Spirit to be with them.
Amen.
Any member of the church of Christ atransgressing, or being bovertaken in a fault, shall be dealt with as the scriptures direct.
It shall be the duty of the several churches, composing the church of Christ, to send one or more of their teachers to attend the several conferences held by the elders of the church, With a list of the anames of the several members uniting themselves with the church since the last conference; or send by the hand of some priest; so that a regular list of all the names of the whole church may be kept in a book by one of the elders, whomsoever the other elders shall appoint from time to time; And also, if any have been aexpelled from the church, so that their names may be blotted out of the general church brecord of names.
All members removing from the church where they reside, if going to a church where they are not known, may take a letter acertifying that they are regular members and in good standing, which certificate may be signed by any elder or priest if the member receiving the letter is personally acquainted with the elder or priest, or it may be signed by the teachers or deacons of the church.
 Behold, there shall be a arecord kept among you; and in it thou shalt be called a bseer, a translator, a prophet, an capostle of Jesus Christ, an elder of the church through the will of God the Father, and the grace of your Lord Jesus Christ, Being ainspired of the Holy Ghost to lay the foundation thereof, and to bbuild it up unto the most holy faith.
Which achurch was borganized and established in the year of your Lord eighteen hundred and thirty, in the fourth month, and on the sixth day of the month which is called April.
Wherefore, meaning the church, thou shalt give aheed unto all his words and bcommandments which he shall give unto you as he receiveth them, walking in all choliness before me; For his aword ye shall receive, as if from mine own mouth, in all patience and faith.
For by doing these things the agates of hell shall not prevail against you; yea, and the Lord God will disperse the powers of bdarkness from before you, and cause the heavens to cshake for your dgood, and his name’s eglory.
For thus saith the Lord God: Him have I inspired to move the cause of aZion in mighty power for good, and his diligence I know, and his prayers I have heard.
Yea, his weeping for Zion I have seen, and I will cause that he shall mourn for her no longer; for his days of rejoicing are come unto the aremission of his sins, and the manifestations of my blessings upon his works.
For, behold, I will abless all those who labor in my vineyard with a mighty blessing, and they shall believe on his words, which are given him through me by the bComforter, which cmanifesteth that Jesus was dcrucified by esinful men for the sins of the fworld, yea, for the remission of sins unto the gcontrite heart.
Wherefore it behooveth me that he should be aordained by you, Oliver Cowdery mine apostle; This being an ordinance unto you, that you are an elder under his hand, he being the afirst unto you, that you might be an elder unto this church of Christ, bearing my name— And the first apreacher of this church unto the church, and before the world, yea, before the Gentiles; yea, and thus saith the Lord God, lo, lo!
to the bJews also.
Amen.
 Behold, I say unto you that all aold covenants have I caused to be done away in this thing; and this is a bnew and an everlasting ccovenant, even that which was from the beginning.
Wherefore, although a man should be baptized an hundred times it availeth him nothing, for you cannot enter in at the strait gate by the alaw of Moses, neither by your bdead works.
For it is because of your dead works that I have caused this last covenant and this church to be built up unto me, even as in days of old.
Wherefore, enter ye in at the agate, as I have commanded, and bseek not to counsel your God.
Amen.
 Behold, I speak unto you, Oliver, a few words.
Behold, thou art blessed, and art under no condemnation.
But beware of apride, lest thou shouldst enter into btemptation.
Make known thy calling unto the church, and also before the aworld, and thy heart shall be opened to preach the truth from henceforth and forever.
Amen.
Behold, I speak unto you, Hyrum, a few words; for thou also art under no condemnation, and thy heart is opened, and thy tongue aloosed; and thy calling is to exhortation, and to bstrengthen the church continually.
Wherefore thy duty is unto the church forever, and this because of thy family.
Amen.
Behold, I speak a few words unto you, aSamuel; for thou also art under no condemnation, and thy calling is to exhortation, and to strengthen the church; and thou art not as yet called to preach before the world.
Amen.
Behold, I speak a few words unto you, Joseph; for thou also art under no acondemnation, and thy calling also is to exhortation, and to strengthen the church; and this is thy duty from henceforth and forever.
Amen.
Behold, I manifest unto you, Joseph Knight, by these words, that you must take up your across, in the which you must bpray cvocally before the world as well as in secret, and in your family, and among your friends, and in all places.
And, behold, it is your duty to unite with the true achurch, and give your language to exhortation continually, that you may receive the reward of the blaborer.
Amen.
 Behold, thou wast called and chosen to awrite the Book of Mormon, and to my ministry; and I have blifted thee up out of thine afflictions, and have counseled thee, that thou hast been delivered from all thine enemies, and thou hast been cdelivered from the powers of Satan and from ddarkness!
Nevertheless, thou art not excusable in thy atransgressions; nevertheless, go thy way and sin no more.
aMagnify thine office; and after thou hast bsowed thy fields and secured them, go speedily unto the church which is in cColesville, Fayette, and Manchester, and they shall dsupport thee; and I will bless them both spiritually and etemporally; But if they receive thee not, I will send upon them a acursing instead of a blessing.
And thou shalt continue in calling upon God in my name, and writing the things which shall be given thee by the aComforter, and expounding all scriptures unto the church.
And it shall be given thee in the very moment what thou shalt aspeak and bwrite, and they shall hear it, or I will send unto them a cursing instead of a blessing.
For thou shalt devote all thy aservice in Zion; and in this thou shalt have strength.
Be apatient in bafflictions, for thou shalt have many; but cendure them, for, lo, I am with thee, even unto the dend of thy days.
And in temporal labors thou shalt not have strength, for this is not thy calling.
Attend to thy acalling and thou shalt have wherewith to magnify thine office, and to expound all scriptures, and continue in laying on of the hands and bconfirming the churches.
And thy brother Oliver shall continue in bearing my name before the aworld, and also to the church.
And he shall not suppose that he can say enough in my cause; and lo, I am with him to the end.
In me he shall have glory, and not of himself, whether in weakness or in strength, whether in abonds or free; And at all times, and in all places, he shall open his mouth and adeclare my gospel as with the voice of a btrump, both day and night.
And I will give unto him strength such as is not known among men.
Require not amiracles, except I shall bcommand you, except ccasting out ddevils, ehealing the sick, and against fpoisonous serpents, and against deadly poisons; And these things ye shall not do, except it be required of you by them who adesire it, that the scriptures might be bfulfilled; for ye shall do according to that which is written.
And in whatsoever place ye shall aenter, and they receive you not in my name, ye shall leave a cursing instead of a blessing, by casting off the bdust of your feet against them as a testimony, and cleansing your feet by the wayside.
And it shall come to pass that whosoever shall lay their hands upon you by violence, ye shall command to be smitten in my name; and, behold, I will asmite them according to your words, in mine own due time.
And whosoever shall go to law with thee shall be cursed by the law.
And thou shalt take no apurse nor scrip, neither staves, neither two coats, for the church shall give unto thee in the very hour what thou needest for food and for raiment, and for shoes and for money, and for scrip.
For thou art called to aprune my vineyard with a mighty pruning, yea, even for the last time; yea, and also all those whom thou hast bordained, and they shall do even according to this pattern.
Amen.
 Hearken unto the voice of the Lord your God, while I speak unto you, Emma Smith, my daughter; for verily I say unto you, all those who areceive my gospel are sons and daughters in my bkingdom.
A revelation I give unto you concerning my will; and if thou art faithful and awalk in the paths of bvirtue before me, I will preserve thy life, and thou shalt receive an cinheritance in Zion.
Behold, thy asins are forgiven thee, and thou art an belect clady, whom I have dcalled.
aMurmur not because of the bthings which thou hast not seen, for they are cwithheld from thee and from the world, which is wisdom in me in a time to come.
And the office of thy calling shall be for a acomfort unto my servant, Joseph Smith, Jun., thy bhusband, in his cafflictions, with consoling words, in the spirit of dmeekness.
And thou shalt go with him at the time of his going, and be unto him for a scribe, while there is no one to be a scribe for him, that I may send my servant, Oliver Cowdery, whithersoever I will.
And thou shalt be aordained under his hand to expound scriptures, and to exhort the church, according as it shall be given thee by my bSpirit.
For he shall lay his ahands upon thee, and thou shalt receive the Holy Ghost, and thy time shall be given to writing, and to learning much.
And thou needest not fear, for thy ahusband shall support thee in the church; for unto them is his bcalling, that all things might be crevealed unto them, whatsoever I will, according to their faith.
And verily I say unto thee that thou shalt lay aside the athings of this bworld, and cseek for the things of a dbetter.
And it shall be given thee, also, to make a selection of asacred bhymns, as it shall be given thee, which is pleasing unto me, to be had in my church.
For my soul adelighteth in the bsong of the cheart; yea, the dsong of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads.
Wherefore, alift up thy heart and brejoice, and cleave unto the covenants which thou hast made.
Continue in the spirit of meekness, and beware of apride.
Let thy soul delight in thy bhusband, and the cglory which shall come upon him.
Keep my commandments continually, and a acrown of brighteousness thou shalt receive.
And except thou do this, where I am you ccannot come.
And verily, verily, I say unto you, that this is my avoice unto all.
Amen.
 Behold, I say unto you that you shall let your atime be devoted to the bstudying of the scriptures, and to preaching, and to confirming the church at cColesville, and to performing your dlabors on the land, such as is required, until after you shall go to the west to hold the next conference; and then it shall be made eknown what you shall do.
And all things shall be done by acommon consent in the bchurch, by much prayer and faith, for all things you shall receive by faith.
Amen.
 Behold, I say unto thee, aOliver, that it shall be given unto thee that thou shalt be heard by the church in all things whatsoever thou shalt teach them by the bComforter, concerning the revelations and commandments which I have given.
But, behold, verily, verily, I say unto thee, ano one shall be appointed to receive commandments and brevelations in this church excepting my servant cJoseph Smith, Jun., for he receiveth them even as dMoses.
And thou shalt be obedient unto the things which I shall give unto him, even as aAaron, to bdeclare faithfully the commandments and the revelations, with power and cauthority unto the church.
And if thou art aled at any time by the Comforter to bspeak or teach, or at all times by the way of commandment unto the church, thou mayest do it.
But thou shalt not write by way of acommandment, but by wisdom; And thou shalt not command him who is at thy head, and at the head of the church; For I have given him the akeys of the bmysteries, and the revelations which are sealed, until I shall appoint unto them another in his stead.
And now, behold, I say unto you that you shall go unto the aLamanites and preach my bgospel unto them; and inasmuch as they creceive thy teachings thou shalt cause my dchurch to be established among them; and thou shalt have revelations, but write them not by way of commandment.
And now, behold, I say unto you that it is not revealed, and no man knoweth where the acity bZion shall be built, but it shall be given hereafter.
Behold, I say unto you that it shall be on the borders by the Lamanites.
Thou shalt not leave this place until after the conference; and my servant Joseph shall be appointed to preside over the conference by the voice of it, and what he saith to thee thou shalt tell.
And again, thou shalt take thy brother, Hiram Page, abetween him and thee alone, and tell him that those things which he hath written from that bstone are not of me and that cSatan ddeceiveth him; For, behold, these things have not been appointed unto him, neither shall anything be appointed unto any of this church contrary to the church covenants.
For all things must be done in aorder, and by common bconsent in the church, by the prayer of faith.
And thou shalt assist to settle all these things, according to the covenants of the church, before thou shalt take thy journey among the Lamanites.
And it shall be agiven thee from the time thou shalt go, until the time thou shalt return, what thou shalt do.
And thou must open thy mouth at all times, declaring my gospel with the sound of rejoicing.
Amen.
 The aworks, and the designs, and the purposes of God cannot be bfrustrated, neither can they come to naught.
For God doth not awalk in crooked paths, neither doth he bturn to the right hand nor to the left, neither doth he vary from that which he hath said, therefore his paths are straight, and his ccourse is one eternal round.
Remember, remember that it is not the awork of God that is frustrated, but the work of men; For although a man may have many arevelations, and have bpower to do many mighty works, yet if he cboasts in his own dstrength, and sets at naught the ecounsels of God, and follows after the dictates of his own will and fcarnal desires, he must fall and incur the gvengeance of a hjust God upon him.
Behold, you have been aentrusted with these things, but how strict were your commandments; and remember also the promises which were made to you, if you did not transgress them.
And behold, how aoft you have btransgressed the commandments and the laws of God, and have gone on in the cpersuasions of men.
For, behold, you should not have afeared man more than God.
Although men set at naught the counsels of God, and bdespise his words— Yet you should have been faithful; and he would have extended his arm and asupported you against all the fiery bdarts of the cadversary; and he would have been with you in every time of dtrouble.
Behold, thou art Joseph, and thou wast chosen to do the work of the Lord, but because of transgression, if thou art not aware thou wilt afall.
But remember, God is merciful; therefore, repent of that which thou hast done which is contrary to the commandment which I gave you, and thou art still chosen, and art aagain called to the work; Except thou ado this, thou shalt be delivered up and become as other men, and have no more gift.
And when thou deliveredst up that which God had given thee sight and power to atranslate, thou deliveredst up that which was bsacred into the hands of a wicked cman, Who has set at naught the counsels of God, and has broken the most sacred promises which were made before God, and has depended upon his own judgment and aboasted in his own wisdom.
And this is the reason that thou hast lost thy privileges for a season— For thou hast suffered the counsel of thy adirector to be trampled upon from the beginning.
Nevertheless, my awork shall go forth, for inasmuch as the knowledge of a Savior has come unto the world, through the btestimony of the Jews, even so shall the cknowledge of a dSavior come unto my people— And to the aNephites, and the Jacobites, and the Josephites, and the Zoramites, through the testimony of their fathers— And this atestimony shall come to the knowledge of the bLamanites, and the Lemuelites, and the Ishmaelites, who cdwindled in unbelief because of the diniquity of their fathers, whom the Lord has suffered to destroy their ebrethren the Nephites, because of their finiquities and their abominations.
And for this very apurpose are these bplates cpreserved, which contain these records—that the dpromises of the Lord might be fulfilled, which he made to his epeople; And that the aLamanites might come to the knowledge of their fathers, and that they might know the bpromises of the Lord, and that they may cbelieve the gospel and drely upon the merits of Jesus Christ, and be eglorified through faith in his name, and that through their repentance they might be saved.
Amen.
 Behold, I say unto you, David, that you have afeared man and have not brelied on me for strength as you ought.
But your mind has been on the things of the aearth more than on the things of me, your Maker, and the ministry whereunto you have been called; and you have not given heed unto my bSpirit, and to those who were set over you, but have been persuaded by those whom I have not commanded.
Wherefore, you are left to inquire for yourself at my hand, and aponder upon the things which you have received.
And your home shall be at your afather’s house, until I give unto you further commandments.
And you shall attend to the bministry in the church, and before the world, and in the regions round about.
Amen.
Behold, I say unto you, Peter, that you shall take your ajourney with your brother Oliver; for the btime has come that it is expedient in me that you shall open your mouth to declare my gospel; therefore, fear not, but give cheed unto the words and advice of your brother, which he shall give you.
And be you afflicted in all his aafflictions, ever blifting up your heart unto me in prayer and faith, for his and your cdeliverance; for I have given unto him power to dbuild up my echurch among the fLamanites; And none have I appointed to be his counselor aover him in the church, concerning church matters, except it is his brother, Joseph Smith, Jun.
Wherefore, give heed unto these things and be diligent in keeping my commandments, and you shall be blessed unto eternal life.
Amen.
Behold, I say unto you, my servant John, that thou shalt commence from this time forth to aproclaim my gospel, as with the bvoice of a trump.
And your labor shall be at your brother Philip Burroughs’, and in that region round about, yea, wherever you can be heard, until I command you to go from hence.
And your whole labor shall be in Zion, with all your soul, from henceforth; yea, you shall ever open your mouth in my cause, not afearing what bman can do, for I am cwith you.
Amen.
 aThomas, my son, blessed are you because of your faith in my work.
Behold, you have had many afflictions because of your family; nevertheless, I will bless you and your afamily, yea, your little ones; and the day cometh that they will believe and know the truth and be one with you in my church.
Lift up your heart and rejoice, for the hour of your mission is come; and your tongue shall be loosed, and you shall declare aglad tidings of great joy unto this generation.
You shall adeclare the things which have been revealed to my servant, Joseph Smith, Jun.
You shall begin to preach from this time forth, yea, to reap in the field which is bwhite already to be burned.
Therefore, athrust in your sickle with all your soul, and your sins are bforgiven you, and you shall be laden with csheaves upon your back, for the dlaborer is worthy of his hire.
Wherefore, your family shall live.
Behold, verily I say unto you, go from them only for a little atime, and declare my word, and I will prepare a place for them.
Yea, I will aopen the hearts of the people, and they will receive you.
And I will establish a church by your hand; And you shall astrengthen them and prepare them against the time when they shall be gathered.
Be apatient in bafflictions, crevile not against those that revile.
Govern your dhouse in meekness, and be esteadfast.
Behold, I say unto you that you shall be a physician unto the church, but not unto the world, for they will not receive you.
Go your way whithersoever I will, and it shall be given you by the aComforter what you shall do and whither you shall go.
aPray always, lest you enter into btemptation and lose your creward.
Be afaithful unto the bend, and lo, I am cwith you.
These words are not of man nor of men, but of me, even Jesus Christ, your Redeemer, by the dwill of the Father.
Amen.
 And now concerning my servant aParley P. Pratt, behold, I say unto him that as I live I will that he shall declare my gospel and blearn of me, and be meek and lowly of heart.
And that which I have appointed unto him is that he shall ago with my servants, Oliver Cowdery and Peter Whitmer, Jun., into the wilderness among the bLamanites.
And aZiba Peterson also shall go with them; and I myself will go with them and be in their bmidst; and I am their cadvocate with the Father, and nothing shall dprevail against them.
And they shall give aheed to that which is written, and pretend to no other brevelation; and they shall pray always that I may cunfold the same to their dunderstanding.
And they shall give heed unto these words and trifle not, and I will bless them.
Amen.
 Behold, I say unto you, my servants aEzra and Northrop, open ye your ears and hearken to the voice of the Lord your God, whose bword is quick and powerful, sharper than a two-edged sword, to the dividing asunder of the joints and marrow, soul and spirit; and is a discerner of the thoughts and cintents of the heart.
For verily, verily, I say unto you that ye are called to lift up your voices as with the asound of a trump, to declare my gospel unto a crooked and bperverse generation.
For behold, the afield is bwhite already to harvest; and it is the celeventh hour, and the last time that I shall call dlaborers into my vineyard.
And my avineyard has become bcorrupted every whit; and there is none which doeth cgood save it be a few; and they derr in many instances because of epriestcrafts, all having corrupt minds.
And verily, verily, I say unto you, that this achurch have I bestablished and called forth out of the cwilderness.
And even so will I agather mine elect from the bfour quarters of the earth, even as many as will believe in me, and hearken unto my voice.
Yea, verily, verily, I say unto you, that the field is awhite already to harvest; wherefore, thrust in your sickles, and reap with all your might, mind, and strength.
aOpen your mouths and they shall be filled, and you shall become even as bNephi of old, who journeyed from Jerusalem in the wilderness.
Yea, open your mouths and spare not, and you shall be laden with asheaves upon your backs, for lo, I am with you.
Yea, open your mouths and they shall be filled, saying: aRepent, repent, and prepare ye the way of the Lord, and make his paths straight; for the bkingdom of heaven is at hand; Yea, arepent and be baptized, every one of you, for a bremission of your sins; yea, be baptized even by water, and then cometh the baptism of fire and of the Holy Ghost.
Behold, verily, verily, I say unto you, this is my agospel; and remember that they shall have faith in me or they can in nowise be saved; And upon this arock I will build my church; yea, upon this rock ye are built, and if ye continue, the bgates of hell shall not prevail against you.
And ye shall remember the church aarticles and covenants to keep them.
And whoso having faith you shall aconfirm in my church, by the laying on of the bhands, and I will bestow the cgift of the Holy Ghost upon them.
And the Book of Mormon and the holy scriptures are given of me for your ainstruction; and the power of my bSpirit cquickeneth all things.
Wherefore, be faithful, praying always, having your alamps btrimmed and burning, and oil with you, that you may be cready at the coming of the dBridegroom— For behold, verily, verily, I say unto you, that I acome quickly.
Even so.
Amen.
 My son aOrson, hearken and hear and behold what I, the Lord God, shall say unto you, even Jesus Christ your Redeemer; The alight and the life of the world, a light which shineth in darkness and the darkness comprehendeth it not; Who so aloved the world that he bgave his own life, that as many as would believe might become the csons of God.
Wherefore you are my son; And ablessed are you because you have believed; And more blessed are you because you are acalled of me to preach my gospel— To lift up your voice as with the sound of a atrump, both long and loud, and bcry repentance unto a crooked and perverse generation, cpreparing the way of the Lord for his dsecond coming.
For behold, verily, verily, I say unto you, the atime is soon at hand that I shall bcome in a ccloud with power and great glory.
And it shall be a agreat day at the time of my coming, for all nations shall btremble.
But before that great day shall come, the asun shall be darkened, and the moon be turned into blood; and the stars shall refuse their shining, and some shall fall, and great destructions await the wicked.
Wherefore, lift up your voice and aspare not, for the Lord God hath spoken; therefore bprophesy, and it shall be given by the cpower of the Holy Ghost.
And if you are faithful, behold, I am with you until I come— And verily, verily, I say unto you, I come aquickly.
I am your bLord and your Redeemer.
Even so.
Amen.
 Thus saith the Lord God, the aMighty One of Israel: Behold, I say unto you, my servant bEdward, that you are blessed, and your sins are forgiven you, and you are called to preach my gospel as with the voice of a trump; And I will lay my ahand upon you by the hand of my servant Sidney Rigdon, and you shall receive my Spirit, the Holy Ghost, even the bComforter, which shall cteach you the peaceable things of the kingdom; And you shall declare it with a loud voice, saying: Hosanna, ablessed be the name of the most high God.
And now this calling and commandment give I unto you concerning all men— That as many as shall come before my servants Sidney Rigdon and Joseph Smith, Jun., embracing this calling and commandment, shall be aordained and sent forth to bpreach the everlasting gospel among the nations— Crying repentance, saying: aSave yourselves from this untoward generation, and come forth out of the fire, hating even the bgarments spotted with the flesh.
And this commandment shall be given unto the elders of my church, that every man which will aembrace it with bsingleness of heart may be ordained and sent forth, even as I have spoken.
I am Jesus Christ, the Son of God; wherefore, gird up your loins and I will asuddenly bcome to my ctemple.
Even so.
Amen.
 Behold, I say unto you that it is not expedient in me that ye should atranslate any more until ye shall go to the Ohio, and this because of the enemy and for your sakes.
And again, I say unto you that ye shall not go until ye have preached my gospel in those parts, and have astrengthened up the church whithersoever it is found, and more especially in bColesville; for, behold, they pray unto me in much faith.
And again, a commandment I give unto the church, that it is expedient in me that they should assemble together at athe Ohio, against the time that my servant Oliver Cowdery shall return unto them.
Behold, here is wisdom, and let every man achoose for himself until I come.
Even so.
Amen.
 Hearken and listen to the voice of him who is from all aeternity to all eternity, the Great bI Am, even Jesus Christ— The alight and the life of the world; a light which shineth in darkness and the darkness comprehendeth it not; The same which came in the ameridian of time unto mine own, and mine own breceived me not; But to as many as received me, gave I power to become my asons; and even so will I give unto as many as will receive me, power to become my sons.
And verily, verily, I say unto you, he that receiveth my gospel areceiveth me; and he that breceiveth not my gospel receiveth not me.
And this is my agospel—repentance and baptism by water, and then cometh the bbaptism of fire and the Holy Ghost, even the Comforter, which showeth all things, and cteacheth the peaceable things of the kingdom.
And now, behold, I say unto you, my servant aJames, I have looked upon thy works and I bknow thee.
And verily I say unto thee, thine heart is now right before me at this time; and, behold, I have bestowed great ablessings upon thy head; Nevertheless, thou hast seen great asorrow, for thou hast brejected me many times because of pride and the cares of the cworld.
But, behold, the days of thy adeliverance are come, if thou wilt bhearken to my voice, which saith unto thee: Arise and be baptized, and cwash away your sins, calling on my name, and you shall receive my Spirit, and a blessing so great as you never have known.
And if thou do this, I have prepared thee for a greater work.
Thou shalt preach the afulness of my gospel, which I have sent forth in these last days, the bcovenant which I have sent forth to crecover my people, which are of the house of Israel.
And it shall come to pass that power shall arest upon thee; thou shalt have great faith, and I will be with thee and go before thy face.
Thou art called to alabor in my vineyard, and to bbuild up my cchurch, and to bring forth dZion, that it may rejoice upon the hills and eflourish.
Behold, verily, verily, I say unto thee, thou art not called to go into the eastern countries, but thou art called to go to the Ohio.
And inasmuch as my people shall assemble themselves at the Ohio, I have kept in store a ablessing such as is not known among the children of men, and it shall be poured forth upon their heads.
And from thence men shall go forth into ball cnations.
Behold, verily, verily, I say unto you, that the people in Ohio call upon me in much faith, thinking I will astay my hand in judgment upon the nations, but I cannot bdeny my word.
Wherefore lay to with your might and call faithful laborers into my vineyard, that it may be apruned for the last time.
And inasmuch as they do repent and receive the fulness of my gospel, and become sanctified, I will stay mine hand in ajudgment.
Wherefore, go forth, crying with a loud voice, saying: The kingdom of heaven is at ahand; crying: Hosanna!
blessed be the name of the Most High God.
Go forth abaptizing with water, preparing the way before my face for the time of my bcoming; For the time is at hand; the aday or the hour no man bknoweth; but it surely shall ccome.
And he that receiveth these things receiveth me; and they shall be agathered unto me in time and in eternity.
And again, it shall come to pass that on as many as ye shall baptize with water, ye shall lay your ahands, and they shall receive the bgift of the Holy Ghost, and shall be clooking forth for the signs of my dcoming, and shall know me.
Behold, I come quickly.
Even so.
Amen.
 Now behold, a amarvelous work is about to come forth among the children of men.
Therefore, O ye that embark in the aservice of God, see that ye bserve him with all your heart, might, mind and strength, that ye may stand cblameless before God at the last day.
Therefore, if ye have desires to serve God ye are acalled to the work; For behold the afield is white already to bharvest; and lo, he that thrusteth in his sickle with his might, the same layeth up in cstore that he perisheth not, but bringeth salvation to his soul; And afaith, bhope, ccharity and dlove, with an eeye single to the fglory of God, gqualify him for the work.
Remember faith, avirtue, knowledge, btemperance, cpatience, dbrotherly ekindness, fgodliness, charity, ghumility, hdiligence.
aAsk, and ye shall receive; bknock, and it shall be opened unto you.
Amen.
 Behold, verily I say unto you, that the heart of my servant aJames Covel was right before me, for he covenanted with me that he would obey my word.
And he areceived the word with gladness, but straightway Satan btempted him; and the fear of cpersecution and the cares of the world caused him to dreject the word.
Wherefore he abroke my covenant, and it remaineth with me to do with him as seemeth me good.
Amen.
 Hearken, O ye elders of my achurch, who have assembled yourselves together in my name, even Jesus Christ the Son of the living God, the Savior of the world; inasmuch as ye believe on my name and keep my commandments.
Again I say unto you, hearken and hear and obey the alaw which I shall give unto you.
For verily I say, as ye have assembled yourselves together according to the acommandment wherewith I commanded you, and are agreed as btouching this one thing, and have asked the Father in my name, even so ye shall receive.
Behold, verily I say unto you, I give unto you this first commandment, that ye shall ago forth in my name, every one of you, excepting my servants Joseph Smith, Jun., and Sidney Rigdon.
And I give unto them a commandment that they shall go forth for a little season, and it shall be agiven by the power of the Spirit when they shall return.
And ye shall go forth in the power of my Spirit, preaching my gospel, atwo by two, in my name, lifting up your voices as with the sound of a btrump, declaring my word like unto angels of God.
And ye shall go forth baptizing with water, saying: Repent ye, repent ye, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand.
And from this place ye shall go forth into the regions westward; and inasmuch as ye shall find them that will receive you ye shall abuild up my church in every region— Until the time shall come when it shall be revealed unto you from on high, when the acity of the bNew Jerusalem shall be prepared, that ye may be cgathered in one, that ye may be my dpeople and I will be your God.
And again, I say unto you, that my servant aEdward Partridge shall stand in the office whereunto I have bappointed him.
And it shall come to pass, that if he transgress canother shall be appointed in his stead.
Even so.
Amen.
Again I say unto you, that it shall not be given to any one to go forth to apreach my gospel, or to build up my church, except he be bordained by some one who has cauthority, and it is known to the church that he has authority and has been regularly ordained by the heads of the church.
And again, the aelders, priests and teachers of this church shall bteach the principles of my gospel, which are in the Bible and the cBook of Mormon, in the which is the dfulness of the egospel.
And they shall aobserve the bcovenants and church articles to cdo them, and these shall be their teachings, as they shall be ddirected by the Spirit.
And the Spirit shall be given unto you aby the prayer of faith; and if ye receive not the bSpirit ye shall not teach.
And all this ye shall observe to do as I have acommanded concerning your teaching, until the fulness of my bscriptures is given.
And as ye shall lift up your voices by the aComforter, ye shall speak and prophesy as seemeth me good; For, behold, the aComforter knoweth all things, and bbeareth record of the Father and of the Son.
And now, behold, I speak unto the church.
Thou shalt not akill; and he that bkills shall cnot have forgiveness in this world, nor in the world to come.
And again, I say, thou shalt not kill; but he that akilleth shall bdie.
Thou shalt not steal; and he that astealeth and will not repent shall be bcast out.
Thou shalt not alie; he that lieth and will not repent shall be cast out.
Thou shalt alove thy wife with all thy heart, and shalt bcleave unto her and none else.
And he that alooketh upon a woman to lust after her shall deny the faith, and shall not have the bSpirit; and if he repents not he shall be cast out.
Thou shalt not commit aadultery; and he that committeth badultery, and repenteth not, shall be ccast out.
But he that has committed adultery and repents with all his heart, and forsaketh it, and doeth it ano more, thou shalt forgive; But if he doeth it aagain, he shall not be forgiven, but shall be cast out.
Thou shalt not aspeak evil of thy neighbor, nor do him any harm.
Thou knowest my laws concerning these things are given in my scriptures; he that sinneth and arepenteth not shall be bcast out.
If thou alovest me thou shalt bserve me and ckeep all my commandments.
And behold, thou wilt remember the apoor, and bconsecrate of thy properties for their csupport that which thou hast to impart unto them, with a covenant and a deed which cannot be broken.
And inasmuch as ye aimpart of your bsubstance unto the cpoor, ye will do it unto me; and they shall be dlaid before the ebishop of my church and his fcounselors, two of the elders, or high priests, such as he shall appoint or has appointed and gset apart for that purpose.
And it shall come to pass, that after they are laid before the bishop of my church, and after that he has received these testimonies concerning the aconsecration of the properties of my church, that they cannot be taken from the church, agreeable to my commandments, every man shall be made baccountable unto me, a csteward over his own property, or that which he has received by consecration, as much as is sufficient for himself and dfamily.
And again, if there shall be properties in the hands of the church, or any individuals of it, more than is necessary for their support after this first consecration, which is a aresidue to be consecrated unto the bishop, it shall be kept to administer to those who have not, from time to time, that every man who has need may be amply supplied and receive according to his wants.
Therefore, the residue shall be kept in my astorehouse, to administer to the poor and the needy, as shall be appointed by the bhigh council of the church, and the bishop and his council; And for the purpose of apurchasing lands for the public benefit of the church, and building houses of bworship, and building up of the cNew Jerusalem which is hereafter to be revealed— That my covenant people may be gathered in one in that day when I shall acome to my btemple.
And this I do for the salvation of my people.
And it shall come to pass, that he that sinneth and repenteth not shall be acast out of the church, and shall not receive again that which he has bconsecrated unto the poor and the needy of my church, or in other words, unto me— For inasmuch as ye ado it unto the least of these, ye do it unto me.
For it shall come to pass, that which I spake by the mouths of my prophets shall be fulfilled; for I will consecrate of the ariches of those who embrace my gospel among the Gentiles unto the bpoor of my people who are of the house of Israel.
And again, thou shalt not be aproud in thy bheart; let all thy cgarments be plain, and their dbeauty the beauty of the ework of thine own hands; And let all things be done in acleanliness before me.
Thou shalt not be aidle; for he that is idle shall not eat the bbread nor wear the garments of the claborer.
And whosoever among you are asick, and have not faith to be healed, but believe, shall be bnourished with all tenderness, with herbs and mild cfood, and that not by the hand of an enemy.
And the elders of the church, two or more, shall be called, and shall pray for and alay their bhands upon them in my name; and if they cdie they shall ddie unto me, and if they live they shall live unto me.
Thou shalt alive together in blove, insomuch that thou shalt cweep for the loss of them that die, and more especially for those that have not dhope of a glorious resurrection.
And it shall come to pass that those that die in me shall not ataste of bdeath, for it shall be csweet unto them; And they that die not in me, wo unto them, for their death is bitter.
And again, it shall come to pass that he that hath afaith in me to be bhealed, and is not cappointed unto death, shall be dhealed.
He who hath faith to see shall see.
He who hath faith to hear shall hear.
The lame who hath faith to leap shall leap.
And they who have not faith to do these things, but believe in me, have apower to become my bsons; and inasmuch as they break not my laws thou shalt cbear their infirmities.
Thou shalt astand in the place of thy stewardship.
Thou shalt not take thy brother’s agarment; thou shalt bpay for that which thou shalt receive of thy brother.
And if thou aobtainest more than that which would be for thy support, thou shalt give it into my bstorehouse, that all things may be done according to that which I have said.
Thou shalt ask, and my ascriptures shall be given as I have appointed, and they shall be bpreserved in safety; And it is expedient that thou shouldst hold thy peace concerning them, and anot teach them until ye have received them in full.
And I give unto you a commandment that then ye shall teach them unto all men; for they shall be ataught unto ball cnations, kindreds, tongues and people.
Thou shalt take the things which thou hast received, which have been given unto thee in my scriptures for a law, to be my alaw to govern my bchurch; And he that adoeth according to these things shall be saved, and he that doeth them not shall be bdamned if he so continue.
If thou shalt ask, thou shalt receive arevelation upon revelation, bknowledge upon knowledge, that thou mayest know the cmysteries and dpeaceable things—that which bringeth ejoy, that which bringeth life eternal.
Thou shalt ask, and it shall be revealed unto you in mine own due time where the aNew Jerusalem shall be built.
And behold, it shall come to pass that my servants shall be sent forth to the east and to the west, to the north and to the south.
And even now, let him that goeth to the east teach them that shall be converted to flee to the awest, and this in consequence of bthat which is coming on the earth, and of csecret combinations.
Behold, thou shalt observe all these things, and great shall be thy areward; for unto you it is given to know the bmysteries of the kingdom, but unto the world it is not given to know them.
Ye shall observe the laws which ye have received and be faithful.
And ye shall hereafter receive church acovenants, such as shall be sufficient to establish you, both here and in the New Jerusalem.
Therefore, he that lacketh awisdom, let him ask of me, and I will give him liberally and upbraid him not.
Lift up your hearts and rejoice, for unto you the akingdom, or in other words, the bkeys of the church have been given.
Even so.
Amen.
The priests and ateachers shall have their bstewardships, even as the members.
And the elders or high priests who are appointed to assist the bishop as counselors in all things, are to have their families asupported out of the property which is bconsecrated to the bishop, for the good of the poor, and for other purposes, as before mentioned; Or they are to receive a just remuneration for all their services, either a stewardship or otherwise, as may be thought best or decided by the counselors and bishop.
And the bishop, also, shall receive his support, or a just remuneration for all his services in the church.
Behold, verily I say unto you, that whatever persons among you, having put away their acompanions for the cause of bfornication, or in other words, if they shall testify before you in all lowliness of heart that this is the case, ye shall not cast them out from among you; But if ye shall find that any persons have left their companions for the sake of aadultery, and they themselves are the offenders, and their companions are living, they shall be bcast out from among you.
And again, I say unto you, that ye shall be awatchful and careful, with all inquiry, that ye receive none such among you if they are married; And if they are not married, they shall repent of all their sins or ye shall not receive them.
And again, every person who belongeth to this church of Christ, shall observe to keep all the commandments and covenants of the church.
And it shall come to pass, that if any persons among you shall akill they shall be delivered up and dealt with according to the laws of the land; for remember that he hath no forgiveness; and it shall be proved according to the laws of the land.
And if any man or woman shall commit aadultery, he or she shall be tried before two elders of the church, or more, and every word shall be established against him or her by two bwitnesses of the church, and not of the enemy; but if there are more than two witnesses it is better.
But he or she shall be condemned by the mouth of two witnesses; and the elders shall lay the case before the achurch, and the church shall lift up their hands against him or her, that they may be dealt with according to the blaw of God.
And if it can be, it is necessary that the abishop be present also.
And thus ye shall do in all cases which shall come before you.
And if a man or woman shall rob, he or she shall be delivered up unto the law of the land.
And if he or she shall asteal, he or she shall be delivered up unto the law of the land.
And if he or she shall alie, he or she shall be delivered up unto the law of the land.
And if he or she do any manner of ainiquity, he or she shall be delivered up unto the law, even that of God.
And if thy abrother or sister boffend thee, thou shalt take him or her between him or her and thee alone; and if he or she cconfess thou shalt be dreconciled.
And if he or she confess not thou shalt deliver him or her up unto the church, not to the members, but to the elders.
And it shall be done in a ameeting, and that not before the world.
And if thy brother or sister offend many, he or she shall be achastened before many.
And if any one offend aopenly, he or she shall be rebuked openly, that he or she may be bashamed.
And if he or she confess not, he or she shall be delivered up unto the law of God.
If any shall offend in secret, he or she shall be rebuked in secret, that he or she may have opportunity to confess in secret to him or her whom he or she has offended, and to God, that the church may not speak reproachfully of him or her.
And thus shall ye conduct in all things.
 O hearken, ye elders of my church, and give ear to the words which I shall speak unto you.
For behold, verily, verily, I say unto you, that ye have received a commandment for a alaw unto my church, through him whom I have appointed unto you to receive commandments and brevelations from my hand.
And this ye shall know assuredly—that there is anone other appointed unto you to receive bcommandments and revelations until he be taken, if he cabide in me.
But verily, verily, I say unto you, that anone else shall be appointed unto this gift except it be through him; for if it be taken from him he shall not have power except to appoint another in his stead.
And this shall be a law unto you, that ye areceive not the bteachings of any that shall come before you as revelations or commandments; And this I give unto you that you may not be adeceived, that you may know they are not of me.
For verily I say unto you, that he that is aordained of me shall come in at the bgate and be ordained as I have told you before, to teach those crevelations which you have received and shall receive through him whom I have appointed.
And now, behold, I give unto you a acommandment, that when ye are bassembled together ye shall cinstruct and dedify each other, that ye may know ehow to act and direct my church, how to act upon the points of my law and commandments, which I have given.
And thus ye shall become instructed in the law of my church, and be asanctified by that which ye have received, and ye shall bind yourselves to act in all holiness before me— That inasmuch as ye do this, glory shall be aadded to the kingdom which ye have received.
Inasmuch as ye do it not, it shall be btaken, even that which ye have received.
aPurge ye out the biniquity which is among you; sanctify yourselves before me; And if ye desire the glories of the kingdom, aappoint ye my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., and uphold him before me by the prayer of faith.
And again, I say unto you, that if ye desire the amysteries of the kingdom, provide for him food and raiment, and whatsoever thing he needeth to accomplish the work wherewith I have commanded him; And if ye do it not he shall remain unto them that have received him, that I may reserve unto myself a apure bpeople before me.
Again I say, hearken ye elders of my achurch, whom I have appointed: Ye are not sent forth to be btaught, but to cteach the children of men the things which I have put into your hands by the power of my dSpirit; And ye are to be ataught from on high.
bSanctify yourselves and ye shall be cendowed with power, that ye may give even as I have spoken.
Hearken ye, for, behold, the agreat bday of the Lord is nigh at hand.
For the day cometh that the Lord shall utter his avoice out of heaven; the heavens shall bshake and the earth shall ctremble, and the dtrump of God shall sound both long and loud, and shall say to the sleeping nations: Ye saints earise and live; ye sinners fstay and gsleep until I shall call again.
Wherefore gird up your loins lest ye be found among the wicked.
Lift up your voices and spare not.
Call upon the nations to repent, both old and young, both abond and free, saying: Prepare yourselves for the great day of the Lord; For if I, who am a man, do lift up my voice and call upon you to repent, and ye ahate me, what will ye say when the bday cometh when the cthunders shall utter their voices from the ends of the earth, speaking to the ears of all that live, saying—Repent, and prepare for the great day of the Lord?
Yea, and again, when the alightnings shall streak forth from the east unto the west, and shall utter forth their voices unto all that live, and make the ears of all tingle that hear, saying these words—Repent ye, for the great day of the Lord is come?
And again, the Lord shall utter his voice out of heaven, saying: Hearken, O ye nations of the earth, and hear the words of that God who amade you.
O, ye nations of the earth, how often would I have gathered you together as a ahen gathereth her chickens under her wings, but ye bwould not!
How oft have I acalled upon you by the mouth of my bservants, and by the cministering of angels, and by mine own voice, and by the voice of dthunderings, and by the voice of lightnings, and by the voice of tempests, and by the voice of earthquakes, and great hailstorms, and by the voice of efamines and pestilences of every kind, and by the great sound of a ftrump, and by the voice of judgment, and by the voice of gmercy all the day long, and by the voice of glory and honor and the hriches of eternal life, and would have saved you with an ieverlasting salvation, but ye would not!
Behold, the day has come, when the acup of the bwrath of mine indignation is full.
Behold, verily I say unto you, that these are the words of the Lord your God.
Wherefore, labor ye, alabor ye in my vineyard for the last time—for the last time call upon the inhabitants of the earth.
For in mine own due time will I acome upon the earth in bjudgment, and my people shall be credeemed and shall dreign with me on earth.
For the great aMillennium, of which I have spoken by the mouth of my servants, shall come.
For aSatan shall be bbound, and when he is loosed again he shall only reign for a clittle season, and then cometh the dend of the earth.
And he that liveth in arighteousness shall be bchanged in the twinkling of an eye, and the earth shall pass away so as by cfire.
And the wicked shall go away into unquenchable afire, and their end no man knoweth on earth, nor ever shall know, until they come before me in bjudgment.
Hearken ye to these words.
Behold, I am Jesus Christ, the aSavior of the world.
bTreasure these things up in your hearts, and let the csolemnities of deternity erest upon your fminds.
Be asober.
Keep all my commandments.
Even so.
Amen.
 Behold, thus saith the Lord unto you my servants, it is expedient in me that the elders of my church should be acalled together, from the east and from the west, and from the north and from the south, by letter or some other way.
And it shall come to pass, that inasmuch as they are faithful, and exercise faith in me, I will pour out my aSpirit upon them in the day that they assemble themselves together.
And it shall come to pass that they shall go forth into the regions round about, and apreach repentance unto the people.
And many shall be aconverted, insomuch that ye shall obtain bpower to organize yourselves caccording to the laws of man; That your aenemies may not have power over you; that you may be preserved in all things; that you may be enabled to keep my laws; that every bond may be broken wherewith the enemy seeketh to destroy my people.
Behold, I say unto you, that ye must avisit the poor and the needy and administer to their relief, that they may be kept until all things may be done according to my law which ye have received.
Amen.
 Hearken, O ye people of my achurch, to whom the bkingdom has been given; hearken ye and give ear to him who laid the foundation of the earth, who cmade the heavens and all the dhosts thereof, and by whom all things were made which elive, and move, and have a being.
And again I say, hearken unto my voice, lest adeath shall overtake you; in an bhour when ye think not the summer shall be past, and the charvest ended, and your souls not saved.
Listen to him who is the aadvocate with the Father, who is pleading your cause before him— Saying: Father, behold the asufferings and bdeath of him who did no csin, in whom thou wast well pleased; behold the blood of thy Son which was shed, the blood of him whom thou gavest that thyself might be dglorified; Wherefore, Father, spare these my abrethren that bbelieve on my name, that they may come unto me and have ceverlasting life.
Hearken, O ye people of my church, and ye elders listen together, and hear my voice while it is called atoday, and harden not your hearts; For verily I say unto you that I am aAlpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, the light and the life of the world—a blight that shineth in darkness and the darkness comprehendeth it not.
I came unto mine own, and mine own areceived me not; but unto as many as received me gave I bpower to do many cmiracles, and to become the dsons of God; and even unto them that ebelieved on my name gave I power to obtain eternal flife.
And even so I have sent mine aeverlasting bcovenant into the world, to be a clight to the world, and to be a dstandard for my people, and for the eGentiles to seek to it, and to be a fmessenger before my face to prepare the way before me.
Wherefore, come ye unto it, and with him that cometh I will areason as with men in days of old, and I will show unto you my strong reasoning.
Wherefore, hearken ye together and let me show unto you even my awisdom—the wisdom of him whom ye say is the God of bEnoch, and his brethren, Who were aseparated from the earth, and were received unto myself—a bcity reserved until a cday of righteousness shall come—a day which was sought for by all holy men, and they found it not because of wickedness and abominations; And confessed they were astrangers and pilgrims on the earth; But obtained a apromise that they should find it and see it in their flesh.
Wherefore, hearken and I will reason with you, and I will aspeak unto you and prophesy, as unto men in days of old.
And I will show it plainly as I showed it unto my adisciples as I stood before them in the flesh, and spake unto them, saying: As ye have asked of me concerning the bsigns of my coming, in the day when I shall come in my cglory in the clouds of heaven, to fulfil the promises that I have made unto your fathers, For as ye have looked upon the long aabsence of your bspirits from your bodies to be a bondage, I will show unto you how the day of redemption shall come, and also the crestoration of the dscattered Israel.
And now ye abehold this temple which is in Jerusalem, which ye call the house of God, and your enemies say that this house shall never fall.
But, verily I say unto you, that adesolation shall come upon this generation as a thief in the night, and this people shall be destroyed and bscattered among all nations.
And this atemple which ye now see shall be thrown down that there shall not be left one stone upon another.
And it shall come to pass, that this ageneration of Jews shall not pass away until every desolation which I have told you concerning them shall come bto pass.
Ye say that ye know that the aend of the world cometh; ye say also that ye know that the heavens and the earth shall pass away; And in this ye say truly, for so it is; but these things which I have told you shall not apass away until all shall be fulfilled.
And this I have told you concerning Jerusalem; and when that day shall come, shall a remnant be ascattered among all bnations; But they shall be agathered again; but they shall remain until the times of the bGentiles be fulfilled.
And in athat day shall be heard of bwars and rumors of wars, and the whole earth shall be in commotion, and men’s hearts shall cfail them, and they shall say that Christ ddelayeth his coming until the end of the earth.
And the alove of men shall wax cold, and biniquity shall abound.
And when the times of the aGentiles is come in, a blight shall break forth among them that sit in darkness, and it shall be the fulness of my cgospel; But they areceive it not; for they perceive not the light, and they turn their bhearts from me because of the cprecepts of men.
And in that generation shall the atimes of the Gentiles be fulfilled.
And there shall be men standing in that ageneration, that shall not pass until they shall see an overflowing bscourge; for a desolating csickness shall cover the land.
But my disciples shall astand in holy places, and shall not be moved; but among the wicked, men shall lift up their voices and bcurse God and die.
And there shall be aearthquakes also in divers places, and many desolations; yet men will harden their hearts against me, and they will take up the bsword, one against another, and they will kill one another.
And now, when I the Lord had spoken these words unto my disciples, they were troubled.
And I said unto them: Be not atroubled, for, when all these things shall come to pass, ye may know that the promises which have been made unto you shall be fulfilled.
And when the alight shall begin to break forth, it shall be with them like unto a parable which I will show you— Ye look and behold the afig trees, and ye see them with your eyes, and ye say when they begin to shoot forth, and their leaves are yet tender, that summer is now nigh at hand; Even so it shall be in that day when they shall see all these things, then shall they know that the hour is nigh.
And it shall come to pass that he that afeareth me shall be blooking forth for the great cday of the Lord to dcome, even for the esigns of the coming of the fSon of Man.
And they shall see signs and awonders, for they shall be shown forth in the heavens above, and in the earth beneath.
And they shall behold blood, and afire, and vapors of bsmoke.
And before the day of the Lord shall come, the asun shall be darkened, and the moon be turned into blood, and the stars fall from heaven.
And the aremnant shall be gathered unto this place; And then they shall look for me, and, behold, I will come; and they shall see me in the aclouds of heaven, clothed with power and great bglory; with all the holy angels; and he that cwatches not for me shall be cut off.
But before the arm of the Lord shall fall, an angel shall sound his atrump, and the bsaints that have slept shall ccome forth to meet me in the dcloud.
Wherefore, if ye have slept in apeace blessed are you; for as you now behold me and know that I am, even so shall ye bcome unto me and your souls shall clive, and your redemption shall be perfected; and the saints shall come forth from the dfour quarters of the earth.
Then shall the aarm of the Lord fall upon the nations.
And then shall the Lord set his foot upon this amount, and it shall cleave in twain, and the earth shall btremble, and reel to and fro, and the cheavens also dshall shake.
And the Lord shall utter his voice, and all the ends of the earth shall hear it; and the nations of the earth shall amourn, and they that have blaughed shall see their cfolly.
And calamity shall cover the amocker, and the scorner shall be consumed; and they that have watched for iniquity shall be hewn down and bcast into the cfire.
And then shall the aJews blook upon me and say: What are these cwounds in thine hands and in thy feet?
Then shall they know that I am the Lord; for I will say unto them: These wounds are the wounds with which I was awounded in the house of my friends.
I am he who was lifted up.
I am Jesus that was bcrucified.
I am the cSon of God.
And then shall they aweep because of their iniquities; then shall they blament because they cpersecuted their dking.
And then shall the aheathen nations be bredeemed, and they that cknew no dlaw shall have part in the efirst fresurrection; and it shall be gtolerable for them.
And aSatan shall be bbound, that he shall have no place in the hearts of the children of men.
And at that day, when I shall come in my aglory, shall the parable be fulfilled which I spake concerning the ten bvirgins.
For they that are wise and have received the atruth, and have taken the Holy Spirit for their bguide, and have not been deceived—verily I say unto you, they shall not be hewn down and cast into the cfire, but shall abide the day.
And the aearth shall be given unto them for an binheritance; and they shall cmultiply and wax strong, and their dchildren shall egrow up without fsin unto gsalvation.
For the Lord shall be in their amidst, and his bglory shall be upon them, and he will be their cking and their dlawgiver.
And now, behold, I say unto you, it shall not be given unto you to know any further concerning this chapter, until the aNew Testament be translated, and in it all these things shall be made known; Wherefore I give unto you that ye may now translate it, that ye may be prepared for the things to come.
For verily I say unto you, that great things await you; Ye hear of awars in foreign lands; but, behold, I say unto you, they are nigh, even at your bdoors, and not many years hence ye shall hear of wars in your own lands.
Wherefore I, the Lord, have said, gather ye out from the aeastern lands, assemble ye yourselves together ye elders of my church; go ye forth into the western countries, call upon the inhabitants to repent, and inasmuch as they do repent, build up churches unto me.
And with one heart and with one mind, gather up your riches that ye may apurchase an inheritance which shall hereafter be appointed unto you.
And it shall be called the aNew Jerusalem, a bland of cpeace, a city of drefuge, a place of esafety for the saints of the Most High God; And the aglory of the Lord shall be there, and the bterror of the Lord also shall be there, insomuch that the wicked will not come unto it, and it shall be called Zion.
And it shall come to pass among the wicked, that every man that will not take his sword against his aneighbor must needs flee unto bZion for safety.
And there shall be agathered unto it out of every bnation under heaven; and it shall be the only people that shall not be at cwar one with another.
And it shall be said among the wicked: Let us not go up to battle against Zion, for the inhabitants of Zion are aterrible; wherefore we cannot stand.
And it shall come to pass that the righteous shall be gathered out from among all nations, and shall come to Zion, singing with asongs of everlasting bjoy.
And now I say unto you, keep these things from going abroad unto the world until it is expedient in me, that ye may accomplish this work in the eyes of the people, and in the eyes of your enemies, that they may not know your works until ye have accomplished the thing which I have commanded you; That when they shall know it, that they may consider these things.
For when the Lord shall appear he shall be aterrible unto them, that fear may seize upon them, and they shall stand afar off and tremble.
And all nations shall be afraid because of the terror of the Lord, and the power of his might.
Even so.
Amen.
 Hearken, O ye people of my church; for verily I say unto you that these things were spoken unto you for your aprofit and learning.
But notwithstanding those things which are written, it always has been given to the aelders of my church from the beginning, and ever shall be, to bconduct all meetings as they are directed and guided by the Holy Spirit.
Nevertheless ye are commanded never to acast any one out from your public bmeetings, which are held before the world.
Ye are also commanded not to cast any one who belongeth to the church out of your sacrament meetings; nevertheless, if any have trespassed, let him anot bpartake until he makes reconciliation.
And again I say unto you, ye shall not cast any out of your sacrament meetings who are earnestly aseeking the kingdom—I speak this concerning those who are not of the church.
And again I say unto you, concerning your aconfirmation meetings, that if there be any that are not of the church, that are earnestly seeking after the kingdom, ye shall not cast them out.
But ye are commanded in all things to aask of God, who giveth liberally; and that which the Spirit testifies unto you even so I would that ye should do in all bholiness of heart, walking uprightly before me, cconsidering the end of your salvation, doing all things with prayer and dthanksgiving, that ye may not be eseduced by evil fspirits, or doctrines of devils, or the gcommandments of men; for some are of men, and others of devils.
Wherefore, beware lest ye are deceived; and that ye may not be deceived aseek ye earnestly the best gifts, always remembering for what they are given; For verily I say unto you, they are given for the benefit of those who love me and keep all my commandments, and him that seeketh so to do; that all may be benefited that seek or that ask of me, that ask and not for a asign that they may bconsume it upon their lusts.
And again, verily I say unto you, I would that ye should always remember, and always retain in your aminds what those bgifts are, that are given unto the church.
For all have not every agift given unto them; for there are many gifts, and to every man is given a gift by the Spirit of God.
To some is given one, and to some is given another, that all may be profited thereby.
To some it is given by the aHoly Ghost to know that Jesus Christ is the Son of God, and that he was crucified for the sins of the world.
To others it is given to abelieve on their words, that they also might have eternal life if they continue faithful.
And again, to some it is given by the Holy Ghost to know the adifferences of administration, as it will be pleasing unto the same Lord, according as the Lord will, suiting his bmercies according to the conditions of the children of men.
And again, it is given by the Holy Ghost to some to know the diversities of operations, whether they be of God, that the manifestations of the aSpirit may be given to every man to profit withal.
And again, verily I say unto you, to some is given, by the Spirit of God, the word of awisdom.
To another is given the word of aknowledge, that all may be taught to be wise and to have knowledge.
And again, to some it is given to have afaith to be healed; And to others it is given to have faith to aheal.
And again, to some is given the working of amiracles; And to others it is given to aprophesy; And to others the adiscerning of spirits.
And again, it is given to some to speak with atongues; And to another is given the interpretation of tongues.
And all these agifts come from God, for the benefit of the bchildren of God.
And unto the abishop of the church, and unto such as God shall appoint and ordain to watch over the church and to be elders unto the church, are to have it given unto them to bdiscern all those gifts lest there shall be any among you professing and yet be not of God.
And it shall come to pass that he that asketh in aSpirit shall receive in Spirit; That unto some it may be given to have all those gifts, that there may be a head, in order that every member may be profited thereby.
He that aasketh in the bSpirit asketh according to the cwill of God; wherefore it is done even as he asketh.
And again, I say unto you, all things must be done in the name of Christ, whatsoever you do in the Spirit; And ye must give athanks unto God in the Spirit for whatsoever blessing ye are blessed with.
And ye must practice avirtue and holiness before me continually.
Even so.
Amen.
 Behold, it is expedient in me that my servant John should write and keep a regular ahistory, and assist you, my servant Joseph, in transcribing all things which shall be given you, until he is called to further duties.
Again, verily I say unto you that he can also alift up his voice in meetings, whenever it shall be expedient.
And again, I say unto you that it shall be appointed unto him to keep the church arecord and history continually; for Oliver Cowdery I have appointed to another office.
Wherefore, it shall be given him, inasmuch as he is faithful, by the aComforter, to write these things.
Even so.
Amen.
 It is necessary that ye should remain for the present time in your places of abode, as it shall be suitable to your circumstances.
And inasmuch as ye have lands, ye shall aimpart to the beastern brethren; And inasmuch as ye have not lands, let them buy for the present time in those regions round about, as seemeth them good, for it must needs be necessary that they have places to live for the present time.
It must needs be necessary that ye asave all the money that ye can, and that ye obtain all that ye can in righteousness, that in time ye may be enabled to bpurchase cland for an dinheritance, even the city.
The aplace is not yet to be brevealed; but after your brethren come from the east there are to be certain men appointed, and to them it shall be given to know the place, or to them it shall be revealed.
And they shall be appointed to apurchase the lands, and to make a commencement to lay the foundation of the city; and then shall ye begin to be gathered with your families, every man according to his bfamily, according to his circumstances, and as is appointed to him by the presidency and the bishop of the church, according to the laws and commandments which ye have received, and which ye shall hereafter receive.
Even so.
Amen.
 Hearken unto my word, my servants Sidney, and Parley, and Leman; for behold, verily I say unto you, that I give unto you a commandment that you shall go and apreach my gospel which ye have received, even as ye have received it, unto the Shakers.
Behold, I say unto you, that they desire to know the truth in part, but not all, for they are not aright before me and must needs repent.
Wherefore, I send you, my servants Sidney and Parley, to preach the gospel unto them.
And my servant Leman shall be ordained unto this work, that he may reason with them, not according to that which he has received of them, but according to that which shall be ataught him by you my servants; and by so doing I will bless him, otherwise he shall not prosper.
Thus saith the Lord; for I am God, and have asent mine bOnly Begotten Son into the world for the credemption of the world, and have decreed that he that receiveth him shall be saved, and he that receiveth him not shall be ddamned— And they have done unto the aSon of Man even as they listed; and he has taken his power on the bright hand of his cglory, and now reigneth in the heavens, and will reign till he descends on the earth to put all enemies dunder his feet, which time is nigh at hand— I, the Lord God, have spoken it; but the hour and the aday no man knoweth, neither the angels in heaven, nor shall they know until he comes.
Wherefore, I will that all men shall repent, for all are under asin, except those which I have breserved unto myself, choly men that ye know not of.
Wherefore, I say unto you that I have sent unto you mine everlasting acovenant, even that which was from the beginning.
And that which I have promised I have so fulfilled, and the anations of the earth shall bbow to it; and, if not of themselves, they shall come down, for that which is now exalted of itself shall be laid clow of power.
Wherefore, I give unto you a commandment that ye ago among this people, and say unto them, like unto mine apostle of old, whose name was bPeter: aBelieve on the name of the Lord Jesus, who was on the earth, and is to come, the beginning and the end; aRepent and be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ, according to the holy commandment, for the remission of sins; And whoso doeth this shall receive the agift of the Holy Ghost, by the laying on of the bhands of the elders of the church.
And again, verily I say unto you, that whoso aforbiddeth to marry is not ordained of God, for bmarriage is ordained of God unto man.
Wherefore, it is lawful that he should have one awife, and they twain shall be bone flesh, and all this that the cearth might answer the end of its creation; And that it might be filled with the measure of man, according to his acreation bbefore the world was made.
And whoso aforbiddeth to babstain from cmeats, that man should not eat the same, is not ordained of God; For, behold, the abeasts of the field and the fowls of the air, and that which cometh of the earth, is bordained for the use of man for food and for craiment, and that he might have in abundance.
But it is not given that one man should apossess that which is above another, wherefore the bworld lieth in csin.
And wo be unto man that asheddeth blood or that bwasteth cflesh and hath no need.
And again, verily I say unto you, that the Son of Man acometh not in the form of a woman, neither of a man traveling on the earth.
Wherefore, be not adeceived, but continue in steadfastness, blooking forth for the heavens to be cshaken, and the earth to tremble and to reel to and fro as a drunken man, and for the dvalleys to be exalted, and for the emountains to be made low, and for the rough places to become smooth—and all this when the angel shall sound his ftrumpet.
But before the great day of the Lord shall come, aJacob shall flourish in the wilderness, and the Lamanites shall bblossom as the rose.
Zion shall aflourish upon the bhills and rejoice upon the mountains, and shall be assembled together unto the place which I have appointed.
Behold, I say unto you, go forth as I have commanded you; repent of all your sins; aask and ye shall receive; knock and it shall be opened unto you.
Behold, I will go before you and be your arearward; and I will be in your bmidst, and you shall not be cconfounded.
Behold, I am Jesus Christ, and I come aquickly.
Even so.
Amen.
 Hearken, O ye elders of my church, and give ear to the avoice of the living God; and attend to the words of wisdom which shall be given unto you, according as ye have asked and are agreed as touching the church, and the bspirits which have gone abroad in the earth.
Behold, verily I say unto you, that there are many spirits which are false aspirits, which have gone forth in the earth, deceiving the world.
And also aSatan hath sought to deceive you, that he might overthrow you.
Behold, I, the Lord, have looked upon you, and have seen aabominations in the church that bprofess my name.
But blessed are they who are faithful and aendure, whether in life or in death, for they shall inherit eternal life.
But wo unto them that are adeceivers and hypocrites, for, thus saith the Lord, I will bring them to judgment.
Behold, verily I say unto you, there are ahypocrites among you, who have deceived some, which has given the badversary cpower; but behold dsuch shall be reclaimed; But the ahypocrites shall be detected and shall be bcut off, either in life or in death, even as I will; and wo unto them who are cut off from my church, for the same are overcome of the world.
Wherefore, let every man beware lest he do that which is not in truth and righteousness before me.
And now come, saith the Lord, by the Spirit, unto the elders of his church, and let us areason together, that ye may understand; Let us reason even as a man reasoneth one with another face to face.
Now, when a man reasoneth he is understood of man, because he reasoneth as a man; even so will I, the Lord, reason with you that you may aunderstand.
Wherefore, I the Lord ask you this question—unto what were ye aordained?
To preach my gospel by the aSpirit, even the bComforter which was sent forth to teach the truth.
And then received ye aspirits which ye could not understand, and received them to be of God; and in this are ye justified?
Behold ye shall answer this question yourselves; nevertheless, I will be amerciful unto you; he that is weak among you hereafter shall be made bstrong.
Verily I say unto you, he that is ordained of me and sent forth to apreach the word of truth by the Comforter, in the Spirit of truth, doth he bpreach it by the Spirit of truth or some other way?
And if it be by some other way it is not of God.
And again, he that receiveth the word of truth, doth he receive it by the Spirit of truth or some other way?
If it be some other way it is not of God.
Therefore, why is it that ye cannot understand and know, that he that receiveth the word by the aSpirit of truth receiveth it as it is preached by the Spirit of truth?
Wherefore, he that preacheth and he that receiveth, understand one another, and both are aedified and brejoice together.
And that which doth not aedify is not of God, and is bdarkness.
That which is of God is alight; and he that breceiveth clight, and dcontinueth in God, receiveth more elight; and that light groweth brighter and brighter until the perfect day.
And again, verily I say unto you, and I say it that you may know the atruth, that you may chase darkness from among you; He that is aordained of God and sent forth, the same is appointed to be the bgreatest, notwithstanding he is the cleast and the dservant of all.
Wherefore, he is possessor of all things; for all things are asubject unto him, both in heaven and on the earth, the life and the light, the Spirit and the bpower, sent forth by the will of the Father through Jesus Christ, his Son.
But no man is possessor of aall things except he be bpurified and ccleansed from all sin.
And if ye are apurified and cleansed from all bsin, ye shall cask whatsoever you will in the name of Jesus and it shall be done.
But know this, it shall be given you what you shall aask; and as ye are appointed to the bhead, the spirits shall be subject unto you.
Wherefore, it shall come to pass, that if you behold a aspirit manifested that you cannot understand, and you receive not that spirit, ye shall ask of the Father in the name of Jesus; and if he give not unto you that spirit, then you may know that it is not of God.
And it shall be given unto you, apower over that spirit; and you shall proclaim against that spirit with a loud voice that it is bnot of God— Not with arailing accusation, that ye be not overcome, neither with bboasting nor rejoicing, lest you be seized therewith.
He that receiveth of God, let him aaccount it of God; and let him rejoice that he is accounted of God worthy to receive.
And by giving heed and doing these things which ye have received, and which ye shall hereafter receive—and the akingdom is given byou of the Father, and cpower to dovercome all things which are not ordained of him— And behold, verily I say unto you, blessed are you who are now hearing these words of mine from the mouth of my servant, for your sins are aforgiven you.
Let my servant Joseph Wakefield, in whom I am well pleased, and my servant aParley P. Pratt go forth among the churches and strengthen them by the word of bexhortation; And also my servant John Corrill, or as many of my servants as are ordained unto this office, and let them labor in the avineyard; and let no man hinder them doing that which I have appointed unto them— Wherefore, in this thing my servant aEdward Partridge is not justified; nevertheless let him repent and he shall be forgiven.
Behold, ye are little children and ye cannot abear all things now; ye must bgrow in cgrace and in the knowledge of the truth.
aFear not, little bchildren, for you are mine, and I have covercome the world, and you are of them that my Father hath dgiven me; And none of them that my Father hath given me shall be alost.
And the Father and I are aone.
I am bin the Father and the Father in me; and inasmuch as ye have received me, ye are in me and I in you.
Wherefore, I am in your midst, and I am the agood bshepherd, and the cstone of Israel.
He that buildeth upon this drock shall never efall.
And the aday cometh that you shall hear my voice and bsee me, and cknow that I am.
aWatch, therefore, that ye may be bready.
Even so.
Amen.
 Hearken unto me, saith the Lord your God, and I will speak unto my servant aEdward Partridge, and give unto him directions; for it must needs be that he receive directions how to organize this people.
For it must needs be that they be aorganized according to my blaws; if otherwise, they will be cut off.
Wherefore, let my servant Edward Partridge, and those whom he has chosen, in whom I am well pleased, appoint unto this people their aportions, every man bequal according to his family, according to his circumstances and his wants and cneeds.
And let my servant Edward Partridge, when he shall appoint a man his aportion, give unto him a writing that shall secure unto him his portion, that he shall hold it, even this right and this inheritance in the church, until he transgresses and is not accounted worthy by the voice of the church, according to the blaws and ccovenants of the church, to belong to the church.
And if he shall transgress and is not accounted worthy to belong to the church, he shall not have power to aclaim that portion which he has consecrated unto the bishop for the poor and needy of my church; therefore, he shall not retain the gift, but shall only have bclaim on that portion that is deeded unto him.
And thus all things shall be made sure, aaccording to the blaws of the land.
And let that which belongs to this people be appointed unto this people.
And the amoney which is left unto this people—let there be an bagent appointed unto this people, to take the cmoney to provide food and raiment, according to the wants of this people.
And let every man deal ahonestly, and be alike among this people, and receive alike, that ye may be bone, even as I have commanded you.
And let that which belongeth to this people not be taken and given unto that of aanother church.
Wherefore, if another church would receive money of this church, let them apay unto this church again according as they shall agree; And this shall be done through the bishop or the agent, which shall be appointed by the avoice of the church.
And again, let the bishop appoint a astorehouse unto this church; and let all things both in money and in meat, which are more than is bneedful for the wants of this people, be kept in the hands of the bishop.
And let him also reserve unto ahimself for his own wants, and for the wants of his family, as he shall be employed in doing this business.
And thus I grant unto this people a privilege of organizing themselves according to my alaws.
And I consecrate unto them this land for a alittle season, until I, the Lord, shall provide for them otherwise, and command them to go hence; And the hour and the day is not given unto them, wherefore let them act upon this land as for years, and this shall turn unto them for their good.
Behold, this shall be aan example unto my servant Edward Partridge, in other places, in all churches.
And whoso is found a afaithful, a bjust, and a wise csteward shall enter into the djoy of his Lord, and shall inherit eternal life.
Verily, I say unto you, I am Jesus Christ, who acometh quickly, in an bhour you think not.
Even so.
Amen.
 Behold, thus saith the Lord unto the elders whom he hath called and chosen in these last days, by the avoice of his Spirit— Saying: I, the Lord, will make known unto you what I will that ye shall do from this time until the next conference, which shall be held in Missouri, upon the aland which I will bconsecrate unto my people, which are a cremnant of Jacob, and those who are heirs according to the dcovenant.
Wherefore, verily I say unto you, let my servants Joseph Smith, Jun., and Sidney Rigdon take their journey as soon as preparations can be made to leave their homes, and journey to the land of aMissouri.
And inasmuch as they are faithful unto me, it shall be made known unto them what they shall do; And it shall also, inasmuch as they are faithful, be made aknown unto them the bland of your inheritance.
And inasmuch as they are not faithful, they shall be cut off, even as I will, as seemeth me good.
And again, verily I say unto you, let my servant Lyman Wight and my servant John Corrill take their journey speedily; And also my servant John Murdock, and my servant Hyrum Smith, take their journey unto the same place by the way of Detroit.
And let them journey from thence preaching the word by the way, saying anone other things than that which the bprophets and apostles have written, and that which is taught them by the cComforter through the prayer of faith.
Let them go atwo by two, and thus let them preach by the way in every congregation, baptizing by bwater, and the laying on of the chands by the water’s side.
For thus saith the Lord, I will cut my work short in arighteousness, for the days come that I will send forth bjudgment unto victory.
And let my servant Lyman Wight beware, for Satan desireth to asift him as chaff.
And behold, he that is afaithful shall be made ruler over many things.
And again, I will give unto you a pattern in all things, that ye may not be deceived; for Satan is abroad in the land, and he goeth forth adeceiving the nations— Wherefore he that prayeth, whose spirit is acontrite, the same is baccepted of me if he obey mine cordinances.
He that aspeaketh, whose spirit is contrite, whose language is meek and bedifieth, the same is of God if he obey mine ordinances.
And again, he that trembleth under my power shall be made astrong, and shall bring forth fruits of praise and bwisdom, according to the revelations and truths which I have given you.
And again, he that is overcome and abringeth not forth fruits, even according to this pattern, is not of me.
Wherefore, by this pattern ye shall aknow the spirits in all cases under the whole heavens.
And the days have come; according to men’s faith it shall be adone unto them.
Behold, this commandment is given unto all the elders whom I have chosen.
And again, verily I say unto you, let my servant aThomas B. Marsh and my servant bEzra Thayre take their journey also, preaching the word by the way unto this same land.
And again, let my servant Isaac Morley and my servant Ezra Booth take their journey, also preaching the word by the way unto this same land.
And again, let my servants aEdward Partridge and Martin Harris take their journey with my servants Sidney Rigdon and Joseph Smith, Jun.
Let my servants David Whitmer and Harvey Whitlock also take their journey, and preach by the way unto this same land.
And let my servants aParley P. Pratt and bOrson Pratt take their journey, and preach by the way, even unto this same land.
And let my servants Solomon Hancock and Simeon Carter also take their journey unto this same land, and preach by the way.
Let my servants Edson Fuller and Jacob Scott also take their journey.
Let my servants Levi W. Hancock and Zebedee Coltrin also take their journey.
Let my servants Reynolds Cahoon and Samuel H. Smith also take their journey.
Let my servants Wheeler Baldwin and William Carter also take their journey.
And let my servants aNewel Knight and bSelah J. Griffin both be ordained, and also take their journey.
Yea, verily I say, let all these take their journey unto one place, in their several courses, and one man shall not build upon another’s afoundation, neither journey in another’s track.
He that is faithful, the same shall be kept and blessed with much afruit.
And again, I say unto you, let my servants Joseph Wakefield and Solomon Humphrey take their journey into the eastern lands; Let them labor with their families, adeclaring none other things than the prophets and apostles, that which they have bseen and heard and most assuredly cbelieve, that the prophecies may be fulfilled.
In consequence of transgression, let that which was bestowed upon Heman Basset be ataken from him, and placed upon the head of Simonds Ryder.
And again, verily I say unto you, let Jared Carter be aordained a priest, and also George James be ordained a bpriest.
Let the residue of the elders awatch over the churches, and declare the word in the regions round about them; and let them blabor with their own hands that there be no cidolatry nor wickedness practiced.
And remember in all things the apoor and the bneedy, the csick and the afflicted, for he that doeth not these things, the same is not my disciple.
And again, let my servants Joseph Smith, Jun., and Sidney Rigdon and Edward Partridge take with them a arecommend from the church.
And let there be one obtained for my servant Oliver Cowdery also.
And thus, even as I have said, if ye are faithful ye shall assemble yourselves together to rejoice upon the land of aMissouri, which is the land of your binheritance, which is now the land of your enemies.
But, behold, I, the Lord, will hasten the city in its time, and will crown the faithful with ajoy and with rejoicing.
Behold, I am Jesus Christ, the Son of God, and I will alift them up at the last day.
Even so.
Amen.
 Behold, I say unto you, my servant Sidney Gilbert, that I have heard your prayers; and you have called upon me that it should be made known unto you, of the Lord your God, concerning your acalling and belection in the church, which I, the Lord, have raised up in these last days.
Behold, I, the Lord, who was acrucified for the sins of the world, give unto you a commandment that you shall bforsake the world.
Take upon you mine ordination, even that of an elder, to preach faith and repentance and aremission of sins, according to my word, and the reception of the Holy Spirit by the laying on of bhands; And also to be an aagent unto this church in the place which shall be appointed by the bishop, according to commandments which shall be given hereafter.
And again, verily I say unto you, you shall take your journey with my servants Joseph Smith, Jun., and Sidney Rigdon.
Behold, these are the first ordinances which you shall receive; and the residue shall be made known in a time to come, according to your labor in my vineyard.
And again, I would that ye should learn that he only is saved who aendureth unto the end.
Even so.
Amen.
 Behold, thus saith the Lord, even aAlpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, even he who was bcrucified for the sins of the world— Behold, verily, verily, I say unto you, my servant Newel Knight, you shall stand fast in the office whereunto I have appointed you.
And if your brethren desire to escape their enemies, let them repent of all their sins, and become truly ahumble before me and contrite.
And as the covenant which they made unto me has been abroken, even so it has become bvoid and of none effect.
And wo to him by whom this aoffense cometh, for it had been better for him that he had been drowned in the depth of the sea.
But blessed are they who have kept the acovenant and observed the bcommandment, for they shall obtain cmercy.
Wherefore, go to now and flee the land, lest your enemies come upon you; and take your journey, and appoint whom you will to be your leader, and to pay moneys for you.
And thus you shall take your journey into the regions westward, unto the land of aMissouri, unto the borders of the Lamanites.
And after you have done journeying, behold, I say unto you, seek ye a aliving like unto men, until I prepare a place for you.
And again, be apatient in tribulation until I bcome; and, behold, I come quickly, and my creward is with me, and they who have dsought me early shall find erest to their souls.
Even so.
Amen.
 Behold, thus saith the Lord unto you, my servant William, yea, even the Lord of the whole aearth, thou art called and chosen; and after thou hast been bbaptized by water, which if you do with an eye single to my glory, you shall have a remission of your sins and a reception of the Holy Spirit by the laying on of chands; And then thou shalt be ordained by the hand of my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., to be an elder unto this church, to preach repentance and aremission of sins by way of baptism in the name of Jesus Christ, the Son of the living God.
And on whomsoever you shall alay your hands, if they are contrite before me, you shall have power to give the Holy Spirit.
And again, you shall be ordained to assist my servant Oliver Cowdery to do the work of printing, and of selecting and writing abooks for bschools in this church, that little cchildren also may receive dinstruction before me as is pleasing unto me.
And again, verily I say unto you, for this cause you shall take your journey with my servants Joseph Smith, Jun., and Sidney Rigdon, that you may be aplanted in the land of your inheritance to do this work.
And again, let my servant aJoseph Coe also take his journey with them.
The residue shall be made known hereafter, even as I will.
Amen.
 Hearken, O ye people who aprofess my name, saith the Lord your God; for behold, mine anger is bkindled against the rebellious, and they shall know mine arm and mine indignation, in the day of cvisitation and of wrath upon the nations.
And he that will not take up his across and bfollow me, and keep my commandments, the same shall not be saved.
Behold, I, the Lord, command; and he that will not aobey shall be bcut off in mine own due time, after I have commanded and the commandment is broken.
Wherefore I, the Lord, command and arevoke, as it seemeth me good; and all this to be answered upon the heads of the brebellious, saith the Lord.
Wherefore, I revoke the commandment which was given unto my servants aThomas B. Marsh and Ezra Thayre, and give a new commandment unto my servant Thomas, that he shall take up his journey speedily to the land of Missouri, and my servant Selah J. Griffin shall also go with him.
For behold, I revoke the commandment which was given unto my servants aSelah J. Griffin and Newel Knight, in consequence of the bstiffneckedness of my people which are in Thompson, and their rebellions.
Wherefore, let my servant Newel Knight remain with them; and as many as will go may go, that are contrite before me, and be led by him to the land which I have appointed.
And again, verily I say unto you, that my servant Ezra Thayre must repent of his apride, and of his bselfishness, and obey the former commandment which I have given him concerning the place upon which he lives.
And if he will do this, as there shall be no divisions made upon the land, he shall be appointed still to go to the land of Missouri; Otherwise he shall receive the amoney which he has paid, and shall leave the place, and shall be bcut off out of my church, saith the Lord God of hosts; And though the heaven and the earth pass away, these words shall not apass away, but shall be fulfilled.
And if my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., must needs pay the money, behold, I, the Lord, will pay it unto him again in the land of Missouri, that those of whom he shall receive may be rewarded again according to that which they do; For according to that which they do they shall receive, even in lands for their inheritance.
Behold, thus saith the Lord unto my people—you have many things to do and to repent of; for behold, your asins have come up unto me, and are not bpardoned, because you seek to ccounsel in your own ways.
And your hearts are not satisfied.
And ye obey not the truth, but have apleasure in unrighteousness.
Wo unto you arich men, that will not bgive your substance to the cpoor, for your driches will canker your souls; and this shall be your lamentation in the day of visitation, and of judgment, and of indignation: The eharvest is past, the summer is ended, and my soul is not saved!
Wo unto you apoor men, whose hearts are not broken, whose spirits are not contrite, and whose bellies are not satisfied, and whose hands are not stayed from laying hold upon other men’s goods, whose eyes are full of bgreediness, and who will not clabor with your own hands!
But blessed are the apoor who are pure in heart, whose hearts are broken, and whose spirits are bcontrite, for they shall see the ckingdom of God coming in power and great glory unto their deliverance; for the fatness of the dearth shall be theirs.
For behold, the Lord shall come, and his arecompense shall be with him, and he shall breward every man, and the poor shall rejoice; And their generations shall ainherit the earth from generation to generation, forever and ever.
And now I make an end of speaking unto you.
Even so.
Amen.
 Hearken, O ye elders of my church, saith the Lord your God, who have assembled yourselves together, according to my commandments, in this land, which is the land of aMissouri, which is the bland which I have appointed and cconsecrated for the dgathering of the saints.
Wherefore, this is the aland of promise, and the bplace for the city of cZion.
And thus saith the Lord your God, if you will receive wisdom here is wisdom.
Behold, the place which is now called Independence is the acenter place; and a spot for the btemple is lying westward, upon a lot which is not far from the courthouse.
Wherefore, it is wisdom that the land should be apurchased by the saints, and also every tract lying westward, even unto the line running directly bbetween Jew and Gentile; And also every tract bordering by the prairies, inasmuch as my disciples are enabled to abuy lands.
Behold, this is wisdom, that they may bobtain it for an everlasting inheritance.
And let my servant Sidney Gilbert stand in the office to which I have appointed him, to receive moneys, to be an aagent unto the church, to buy land in all the regions round about, inasmuch as can be done in righteousness, and as wisdom shall direct.
And let my servant aEdward Partridge stand in the boffice to which I have appointed him, and cdivide unto the saints their inheritance, even as I have commanded; and also those whom he has appointed to assist him.
And again, verily I say unto you, let my servant Sidney Gilbert plant himself in this place, and establish a astore, that he may sell goods bwithout fraud, that he may obtain money to buy clands for the good of the saints, and that he may obtain whatsoever things the disciples may need to plant them in their inheritance.
And also let my servant Sidney Gilbert obtain a license—behold here is awisdom, and whoso readeth let him bunderstand—that he may send goods also unto the people, even by whom he will as clerks employed in his service; And thus provide for my saints, that my gospel may be preached unto those who sit in adarkness and in the region and bshadow of death.
And again, verily I say unto you, let my servant aWilliam W. Phelps be planted in this place, and be established as a bprinter unto the church.
And lo, if the world receive his writings—behold here is wisdom—let him obtain whatsoever he can obtain in righteousness, for the good of the saints.
And let my servant aOliver Cowdery assist him, even as I have commanded, in whatsoever place I shall appoint unto him, to copy, and to correct, and select, that all things may be right before me, as it shall be proved by the Spirit through him.
And thus let those of whom I have spoken be planted in the land of Zion, as speedily as can be, with their afamilies, to do those things even as I have spoken.
And now concerning the gathering—Let the bishop and the agent make preparations for those families which have been commanded to come to this land, as soon as possible, and plant them in their inheritance.
And unto the residue of both elders and members further directions shall be given hereafter.
Even so.
Amen.
 Behold, blessed, saith the Lord, are they who have come up unto this land with an aeye single to my glory, according to my commandments.
For those that live shall ainherit the earth, and those that bdie shall rest from all their labors, and their works shall follow them; and they shall receive a ccrown in the dmansions of my Father, which I have prepared for them.
Yea, blessed are they whose feet stand upon the land of Zion, who have obeyed my gospel; for they shall receive for their reward the good things of the earth, and it shall bring forth in its astrength.
And they shall also be crowned with blessings from above, yea, and with acommandments not a few, and with brevelations in their time—they that are cfaithful and ddiligent before me.
Wherefore, I give unto them a commandment, saying thus: Thou shalt alove the Lord thy God with all thy bheart, with all thy might, mind, and strength; and in the name of Jesus Christ thou shalt cserve him.
Thou shalt alove thy bneighbor as thyself.
Thou shalt not csteal; neither commit dadultery, nor ekill, nor do anything flike unto it.
Thou shalt athank the Lord thy God in all things.
Thou shalt offer a asacrifice unto the Lord thy God in brighteousness, even that of a broken heart and a ccontrite spirit.
And that thou mayest more fully keep thyself aunspotted from the world, thou shalt go to the house of bprayer and offer up thy csacraments upon my dholy day; For verily this is a aday appointed unto you to rest from your labors, and to pay thy devotions unto the Most High; Nevertheless thy avows shall be offered up in righteousness on all days and at all times; But remember that on this, the aLord’s day, thou shalt offer thine boblations and thy sacraments unto the Most High, cconfessing thy sins unto thy brethren, and before the Lord.
And on this day thou shalt do none other thing, only let thy food be prepared with singleness of heart that thy afasting may be perfect, or, in other words, that thy bjoy may be full.
Verily, this is fasting and prayer, or in other words, rejoicing and prayer.
And inasmuch as ye do these things with athanksgiving, with bcheerful chearts and countenances, not with dmuch elaughter, for this is sin, but with a glad heart and a cheerful countenance— Verily I say, that inasmuch as ye do this, the afulness of the earth is yours, the beasts of the field and the fowls of the air, and that which climbeth upon the trees and walketh upon the earth; Yea, and the herb, and the agood things which come of the earth, whether for food or for braiment, or for houses, or for barns, or for orchards, or for gardens, or for vineyards; Yea, all things which come of the earth, in the season thereof, are made for the abenefit and the buse of man, both to please the eye and to cgladden the heart; Yea, for afood and for raiment, for taste and for smell, to bstrengthen the body and to enliven the soul.
And it pleaseth God that he hath given all these things unto man; for unto this end were they made to be used, with judgment, not to aexcess, neither by extortion.
And in nothing doth man aoffend God, or against none is his bwrath ckindled, save those who dconfess not his hand in all things, and eobey not his commandments.
Behold, this is according to the law and the prophets; wherefore, trouble me no more concerning this matter.
But learn that he who doeth the works of arighteousness shall receive his breward, even cpeace in this world, and deternal life in the world to come.
I, the Lord, have spoken it, and the Spirit beareth record.
Amen.
 Behold, thus saith the Lord unto the elders of his church, who are to return speedily to the land from whence they came: Behold, it pleaseth me, that you have come up hither; But with some I am not well pleased, for they will not open their amouths, but they hide the btalent which I have given unto them, because of the cfear of man.
Wo unto such, for mine danger is ekindled against them.
And it shall come to pass, if they are not more faithful unto me, it shall be ataken away, even that which they have.
For I, the Lord, arule in the heavens above, and among the barmies of the earth; and in the day when I shall make up my cjewels, all men shall know what it is that bespeaketh the power of God.
But, verily, I will speak unto you concerning your journey unto the land from whence you came.
Let there be a craft made, or bought, as aseemeth you good, it mattereth not unto me, and take your journey speedily for the place which is called St. Louis.
And from thence let my servants, Sidney Rigdon, Joseph Smith, Jun., and Oliver Cowdery, take their journey for Cincinnati; And in this place let them lift up their voice and declare my word with loud voices, without wrath or adoubting, lifting up holy hands upon them.
For I am able to make you bholy, and your sins are cforgiven you.
And let the residue take their journey from St. Louis, atwo by two, and preach the word, not in haste, among the congregations of the wicked, until they return to the churches from whence they came.
And all this for the good of the achurches; for this intent have I sent them.
And let my servant aEdward Partridge impart of the bmoney which I have given him, a portion unto mine elders who are commanded to return; And he that is able, let him return it by the way of the agent; and he that is not, of him it is not required.
And now I speak of the residue who are to come unto this land.
Behold, they have been sent to preach my gospel among the congregations of the wicked; wherefore, I give unto them a commandment, thus: Thou shalt not aidle away thy time, neither shalt thou bury thy btalent that it may not be known.
And after thou hast come up unto the land of Zion, and hast proclaimed my word, thou shalt speedily return, proclaiming my word among the congregations of the wicked, not in ahaste, neither in bwrath nor with cstrife.
And shake off the adust of thy feet against those who receive thee not, not in their presence, lest thou bprovoke them, but in secret; and cwash thy feet, as a testimony against them in the day of judgment.
Behold, this is sufficient for you, and the will of him who hath sent you.
And by the mouth of my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., it shall be made known concerning Sidney Rigdon and Oliver Cowdery.
The residue hereafter.
Even so.
Amen.
 Behold, and hearken unto the voice of him who has all apower, who is from everlasting to everlasting, even bAlpha and Omega, the beginning and the end.
Behold, verily thus saith the Lord unto you, O ye elders of my church, who are assembled upon this spot, whose sins are now forgiven you, for I, the Lord, aforgive sins, and am bmerciful unto those who cconfess their sins with humble hearts; But verily I say unto you, that it is not needful for this whole company of mine elders to be moving swiftly upon the waters, whilst the inhabitants on either side are perishing in unbelief.
Nevertheless, I suffered it that ye might bear record; behold, there are many dangers upon the waters, and more especially hereafter; For I, the Lord, have decreed in mine anger many destructions upon the waters; yea, and especially upon these waters.
Nevertheless, all flesh is in mine hand, and he that is faithful among you shall not aperish by the waters.
Wherefore, it is expedient that my servant Sidney Gilbert and my servant aWilliam W. Phelps be in haste upon their errand and mission.
Nevertheless, I would not suffer that ye should part until you were achastened for all your sins, that you might be one, that you might not perish in bwickedness; But now, verily I say, it behooveth me that ye should part.
Wherefore let my servants Sidney Gilbert and William W. Phelps take their former company, and let them take their journey in haste that they may fill their mission, and through faith they shall overcome; And inasmuch as they are afaithful they shall be preserved, and I, the Lord, will be bwith them.
And let the residue take that which is needful for clothing.
Let my servant Sidney Gilbert take that which is not needful with him, as you shall agree.
And now, behold, for your agood I gave unto you a bcommandment concerning these things; and I, the Lord, will reason with you as with men in days of old.
Behold, I, the Lord, in the beginning blessed the awaters; but in the last days, by the mouth of my servant John, I bcursed the waters.
Wherefore, the days will come that no flesh shall be safe upon the waters.
And it shall be said in days to come that none is able to go up to the land of Zion upon the waters, but he that is upright in heart.
And, as I, the Lord, in the beginning acursed the land, even so in the last days have I bblessed it, in its time, for the use of my saints, that they may partake the fatness thereof.
And now I give unto you a commandment that what I say unto one I say unto all, that you shall forewarn your brethren concerning these waters, that they come not in journeying upon them, lest their faith fail and they are caught in snares; I, the Lord, have decreed, and the destroyer rideth upon the face thereof, and I revoke not the decree.
I, the Lord, was aangry with you yesterday, but today mine anger is turned away.
Wherefore, let those concerning whom I have spoken, that should take their journey in haste—again I say unto you, let them take their journey in haste.
And it mattereth not unto me, after a little, if it so be that they fill their mission, whether they go by water or by land; let this be as it is made known unto them aaccording to their judgments hereafter.
And now, concerning my servants, Sidney Rigdon, Joseph Smith, Jun., and Oliver Cowdery, let them come not again upon the waters, save it be upon the canal, while journeying unto their homes; or in other words they shall not come upon the waters to journey, save upon the canal.
Behold, I, the Lord, have appointed a way for the journeying of my saints; and behold, this is the way—that after they leave the canal they shall journey by land, inasmuch as they are commanded to journey and go up unto the land of Zion; And they shall do alike unto the children of Israel, bpitching their tents by the way.
And, behold, this commandment you shall give unto all your brethren.
Nevertheless, unto whom is given apower to command the waters, unto him it is given by the Spirit to know all his ways; Wherefore, let him do as the Spirit of the living God commandeth him, whether upon the land or upon the waters, as it remaineth with me to do hereafter.
And unto you is given the course for the saints, or the way for the saints of the camp of the Lord, to journey.
And again, verily I say unto you, my servants, Sidney Rigdon, Joseph Smith, Jun., and Oliver Cowdery, shall not open their mouths in the acongregations of the wicked until they arrive at Cincinnati; And in that place they shall lift up their voices unto God against that people, yea, unto him whose anger is akindled against their wickedness, a people who are well-nigh bripened for destruction.
And from thence let them journey for the congregations of their brethren, for their labors even now are wanted more abundantly among them than among the congregations of the wicked.
And now, concerning the residue, let them journey and adeclare the word among the congregations of the wicked, inasmuch as it is given; And inasmuch as they do this they shall arid their garments, and they shall be spotless before me.
And let them journey together, or atwo by two, as seemeth them good, only let my servant Reynolds Cahoon, and my servant Samuel H. Smith, with whom I am well pleased, be not separated until they return to their homes, and this for a wise purpose in me.
And now, verily I say unto you, and what I say unto one I say unto all, be of good acheer, blittle children; for I am in your cmidst, and I have not dforsaken you; And inasmuch as you have humbled yourselves before me, the blessings of the akingdom are yours.
Gird up your loins and be awatchful and be sober, looking forth for the coming of the Son of Man, for he cometh in an hour you think not.
Pray always that you enter not into atemptation, that you may abide the day of his coming, whether in life or in death.
Even so.
Amen.
 Behold, and hearken, O ye elders of my church, saith the Lord your God, even Jesus Christ, your aadvocate, who knoweth the weakness of man and how to bsuccor them who are ctempted.
And verily mine eyes are upon those who have not as yet gone up unto the land of Zion; wherefore your mission is not yet full.
Nevertheless, ye are ablessed, for the btestimony which ye have borne is crecorded in heaven for the angels to look upon; and they rejoice over you, and your dsins are forgiven you.
And now continue your journey.
Assemble yourselves upon the land of aZion; and hold a meeting and rejoice together, and offer a bsacrament unto the Most High.
And then you may return to bear record, yea, even altogether, or atwo by two, as seemeth you good, it mattereth not unto me; only be faithful, and bdeclare glad tidings unto the inhabitants of the earth, or among the ccongregations of the wicked.
Behold, I, the Lord, have brought you together that the promise might be fulfilled, that the faithful among you should be preserved and rejoice together in the land of Missouri.
I, the Lord, apromise the faithful and cannot blie.
I, the Lord, am willing, if any among you adesire to ride upon horses, or upon mules, or in chariots, he shall receive this blessing, if he receive it from the hand of the Lord, with a bthankful heart in all things.
These things remain with you to do according to judgment and the directions of the Spirit.
Behold, the akingdom is yours.
And behold, and lo, I am bwith the faithful always.
Even so.
Amen.
 Hearken, O ye people, and open your hearts and give ear from afar; and listen, you that call yourselves the apeople of the Lord, and hear the word of the Lord and his will concerning you.
Yea, verily, I say, hear the word of him whose anger is akindled against the wicked and brebellious; Who willeth to take even them whom he will atake, and bpreserveth in life them whom he will preserve; Who buildeth up at his own will and apleasure; and destroyeth when he pleases, and is able to bcast the soul down to hell.
Behold, I, the Lord, utter my voice, and it shall be aobeyed.
Wherefore, verily I say, let the wicked take heed, and let the arebellious bfear and tremble; and let the unbelieving hold their lips, for the cday of wrath shall come upon them as a dwhirlwind, and all flesh shall eknow that I am God.
And he that seeketh asigns shall see bsigns, but not unto salvation.
Verily, I say unto you, there are those among you who seek signs, and there have been such even from the beginning; But, behold, faith cometh not by signs, but asigns follow those that believe.
Yea, asigns come by bfaith, not by the will of men, nor as they please, but by the will of God.
Yea, signs come by faith, unto mighty works, for without afaith no man pleaseth God; and with whom God is bangry he is not well pleased; wherefore, unto such he showeth no signs, only in cwrath unto their dcondemnation.
Wherefore, I, the Lord, am not pleased with those among you who have sought after signs and wonders for faith, and not for the good of men unto my glory.
Nevertheless, I give commandments, and many have turned away from my commandments and have anot kept them.
There were among you aadulterers and adulteresses; some of whom have turned away from you, and others remain with you that hereafter shall be revealed.
Let such beware and repent speedily, lest judgment shall come upon them as a asnare, and their bfolly shall be made manifest, and their works shall follow them in the eyes of the people.
And verily I say unto you, as I have said before, he that alooketh on a woman to blust after her, or if any shall commit cadultery in their hearts, they shall not have the dSpirit, but shall deny the faith and shall fear.
Wherefore, I, the Lord, have said that the afearful, and the bunbelieving, and all cliars, and whosoever loveth and maketh a lie, and the dwhoremonger, and the esorcerer, shall have their part in that flake which burneth with fire and brimstone, which is the gsecond death.
Verily I say, that they shall not have part in the afirst resurrection.
And now behold, I, the Lord, say unto you that ye are not ajustified, because these things are among you.
Nevertheless, he that aendureth in faith and doeth my bwill, the same shall overcome, and shall receive an cinheritance upon the earth when the day of transfiguration shall come; When the aearth shall be btransfigured, even according to the pattern which was shown unto mine apostles upon the cmount; of which account the fulness ye have not yet received.
And now, verily I say unto you, that as I said that I would make known my will unto you, behold I will make it known unto you, anot by the way of commandment, for there are many who observe not to keep my commandments.
But unto him that keepeth my commandments I will give the amysteries of my kingdom, and the same shall be in him a well of living bwater, cspringing up unto everlasting life.
And now, behold, this is the will of the Lord your God concerning his saints, that they should aassemble themselves together unto the land of Zion, not in haste, lest there should be confusion, which bringeth pestilence.
Behold, the land of aZion—I, the Lord, hold it in mine own hands; Nevertheless, I, the Lord, render unto aCæsar the things which are Cæsar’s.
Wherefore, I the Lord will that you should apurchase the lands, that you may have advantage of the world, that you may have claim on the world, that they may not be bstirred up unto anger.
For aSatan bputteth it into their hearts to anger against you, and to the shedding of blood.
Wherefore, the land of Zion shall not be obtained but by apurchase or by blood, otherwise there is none inheritance for you.
And if by purchase, behold you are blessed; And if by ablood, as you are forbidden to shed blood, lo, your enemies are upon you, and ye shall be scourged from city to city, and from synagogue to synagogue, and but bfew shall stand to receive an inheritance.
I, the Lord, am aangry with the bwicked; I am holding my cSpirit from the inhabitants of the earth.
I have sworn in my wrath, and adecreed wars upon the face of the earth, and the wicked shall bslay the wicked, and fear shall come upon every man; And the asaints also shall bhardly cescape; nevertheless, I, the Lord, am with them, and will dcome down in heaven from the presence of my Father and econsume the wicked with unquenchable fire.
And behold, this is not yet, but aby and by.
Wherefore, seeing that I, the Lord, have decreed all these things upon the face of the earth, I will that my saints should be assembled upon the land of Zion; aAnd that every man should take brighteousness in his hands and cfaithfulness upon his loins, and lift a warning dvoice unto the inhabitants of the earth; and declare both by word and by flight that edesolation shall come upon the wicked.
Wherefore, let my disciples in Kirtland arrange their temporal concerns, who dwell upon this farm.
Let my servant Titus Billings, who has the care thereof, dispose of the land, that he may be prepared in the coming spring to take his journey up unto the land of Zion, with those that dwell upon the face thereof, excepting those whom I shall reserve unto myself, that shall anot go until I shall command them.
And let all the moneys which can be spared, it mattereth not unto me whether it be little or much, be sent up unto the land of Zion, unto them whom I have appointed to areceive.
Behold, I, the Lord, will give unto my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., power that he shall be enabled to adiscern by the Spirit those who shall go up unto the land of Zion, and those of my disciples who shall tarry.
Let my servant aNewel K. Whitney retain his bstore, or in other words, the store, yet for a little season.
Nevertheless, let him impart all the money which he can impart, to be sent up unto the land of Zion.
Behold, these things are in his own hands, let him do aaccording to wisdom.
Verily I say, let him be ordained as an agent unto the disciples that shall tarry, and let him be aordained unto this power; And now speedily visit the churches, expounding these things unto them, with my servant Oliver Cowdery.
Behold, this is my will, obtaining moneys even as I have directed.
He that is afaithful and bendureth shall overcome the world.
He that sendeth up treasures unto the land of Zion shall receive an ainheritance in this world, and his works shall follow him, and also a breward in the world to come.
Yea, and blessed are the dead that adie in the Lord, from henceforth, when the Lord shall come, and old things shall bpass away, and all things become new, they shall crise from the dead and shall not ddie after, and shall receive an inheritance before the Lord, in the eholy city.
And he that liveth when the Lord shall come, and hath kept the faith, ablessed is he; nevertheless, it is appointed to him to bdie at the age of man.
Wherefore, achildren shall bgrow up until they become old; old men shall die; but they shall not sleep in the dust, but they shall be cchanged in the twinkling of an eye.
Wherefore, for this cause preached the apostles unto the world the resurrection of the dead.
These things are the things that ye must look for; and, speaking after the manner of the Lord, they are now anigh at hand, and in a time to come, even in the day of the coming of the Son of Man.
And until that hour there will be foolish avirgins among the wise; and at that hour cometh an entire bseparation of the righteous and the wicked; and in that day will I send mine angels to cpluck out the wicked and cast them into unquenchable fire.
And now behold, verily I say unto you, I, the Lord, am not pleased with my servant aSidney Rigdon; he bexalted himself in his heart, and received not counsel, but cgrieved the Spirit; Wherefore his awriting is not acceptable unto the Lord, and he shall make another; and if the Lord receive it not, behold he standeth no longer in the office to which I have appointed him.
And again, verily I say unto you, athose who desire in their hearts, in meekness, to bwarn sinners to repentance, let them be ordained unto this power.
For this is a day of awarning, and not a day of many words.
For I, the Lord, am not to be bmocked in the last days.
Behold, I am from above, and my power lieth beneath.
I am over all, and in all, and through all, and asearch all things, and the day cometh that all things shall be bsubject unto me.
Behold, I am aAlpha and Omega, even Jesus Christ.
Wherefore, let all men abeware how they take my bname in their lips— For behold, verily I say, that many there be who are under this condemnation, who use the name of the Lord, and use it in vain, having not aauthority.
Wherefore, let the church repent of their sins, and I, the Lord, will aown them; otherwise they shall be cut off.
Remember that that which cometh from above is asacred, and must be bspoken with care, and by constraint of the Spirit; and in this there is no condemnation, and ye receive the Spirit cthrough prayer; wherefore, without this there remaineth condemnation.
Let my servants, Joseph Smith, Jun., and Sidney Rigdon, seek them a home, as they are ataught through prayer by the Spirit.
These things remain to overcome through patience, that such may receive a more exceeding and eternal aweight of bglory, otherwise, a greater condemnation.
Amen.
 Hearken, and lo, a voice as of one sent down from on high, who is mighty and powerful, whose going forth is unto the ends of the earth, yea, whose voice is unto men—aPrepare ye the way of the Lord, make his paths straight.
The akeys of the bkingdom of God are committed unto man on the earth, and from thence shall the cgospel roll forth unto the ends of the earth, as the dstone which is cut out of the mountain without hands shall roll forth, until it has efilled the whole earth.
Yea, a voice crying—aPrepare ye the way of the Lord, prepare ye the bsupper of the Lamb, make ready for the cBridegroom.
Pray unto the Lord, acall upon his holy name, make known his wonderful bworks among the people.
Call upon the Lord, that his kingdom may go forth upon the earth, that the inhabitants thereof may receive it, and be prepared for the days to come, in the which the Son of Man shall acome down in heaven, bclothed in the brightness of his cglory, to meet the dkingdom of God which is set up on the earth.
Wherefore, may the akingdom of God go forth, that the bkingdom of heaven may come, that thou, O God, mayest be cglorified in heaven so on earth, that thine denemies may be subdued; for ethine is the honor, power and glory, forever and ever.
Amen.
 Behold, thus saith the Lord unto my servant aWilliam E. McLellin—Blessed are you, inasmuch as you have bturned away from your iniquities, and have received my truths, saith the Lord your Redeemer, the cSavior of the world, even of as many as believe on my name.
Verily I say unto you, blessed are you for receiving mine aeverlasting covenant, even the fulness of my gospel, sent forth unto the children of men, that they might have blife and be made cpartakers of the dglories which are to be revealed in the last days, as it was written by the prophets and apostles in days of old.
Verily I say unto you, my servant William, that you are clean, but not aall; repent, therefore, of those things which are not pleasing in my sight, saith the Lord, for the Lord will bshow them unto you.
And now, verily, I, the Lord, will show unto you what I awill concerning you, or what is my will concerning you.
Behold, verily I say unto you, that it is my will that you should aproclaim my gospel from land to land, and from bcity to city, yea, in those regions round about where it has not been proclaimed.
Tarry not many days in this place; go anot up unto the land of Zion as yet; but inasmuch as you can bsend, send; otherwise, think not of thy property.
aGo unto the eastern lands, bear btestimony in every place, unto every people and in their csynagogues, reasoning with the people.
Let my servant Samuel H. Smith go with you, and forsake him not, and give him thine instructions; and he that is afaithful shall be made bstrong in every place; and I, the Lord, will go with you.
Lay your ahands upon the bsick, and they shall crecover.
Return not till I, the Lord, shall send you.
Be patient in affliction.
dAsk, and ye shall receive; knock, and it shall be opened unto you.
Seek not to be acumbered.
Forsake all bunrighteousness.
Commit not cadultery—a temptation with which thou hast been troubled.
aKeep these sayings, for they are true and bfaithful; and thou shalt cmagnify thine office, and push many people to dZion with esongs of everlasting joy upon their heads.
aContinue in these things even unto the end, and you shall have a bcrown of eternal life at the right hand of my Father, who is full of cgrace and truth.
Verily, thus saith the Lord your aGod, your Redeemer, even Jesus Christ.
Amen.
 Behold and hearken, O ye aelders of my church, who have assembled yourselves together, whose bprayers I have heard, and whose chearts I know, and whose desires have come up before me.
Behold and lo, mine aeyes are upon you, and the heavens and the earth are in mine bhands, and the riches of eternity are mine to give.
Ye endeavored to abelieve that ye should receive the blessing which was offered unto you; but behold, verily I say unto you there were bfears in your hearts, and verily this is the reason that ye did not receive.
And now I, the Lord, give unto you a atestimony of the truth of these commandments which are lying before you.
Your eyes have been upon my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., and his alanguage you have known, and his imperfections you have known; and you have sought in your hearts knowledge that you might express beyond his language; this you also know.
Now, seek ye out of the Book of Commandments, even the least that is among them, and appoint him that is the most awise among you; Or, if there be any among you that shall make one alike unto it, then ye are justified in saying that ye do not know that they are true; But if ye cannot make one like unto it, ye are under condemnation if ye do not abear record that they are true.
For ye know that there is no unrighteousness in them, and that which is arighteous cometh down from above, from the Father of blights.
And again, verily I say unto you that it is your privilege, and a apromise I give unto you that have been ordained unto this ministry, that inasmuch as you bstrip yourselves from cjealousies and dfears, and ehumble yourselves before me, for ye are not sufficiently humble, the fveil shall be rent and you shall gsee me and know that I am—not with the carnal neither natural mind, but with the spiritual.
For no aman has seen God at any time in the flesh, except quickened by the Spirit of God.
Neither can any anatural man abide the presence of God, neither after the carnal mind.
Ye are not able to abide the presence of God now, neither the ministering of angels; wherefore, acontinue in patience until ye are bperfected.
Let not your minds aturn back; and when ye are bworthy, in mine own due time, ye shall see and know that which was conferred upon you by the hands of my servant Joseph Smith, Jun.
Amen.
 My servant, Orson Hyde, was called by his ordination to proclaim the aeverlasting gospel, by the bSpirit of the living God, from people to people, and from land to land, in the ccongregations of the wicked, in their dsynagogues, reasoning with and eexpounding all scriptures unto them.
And, behold, and lo, this is an ensample unto all those who were ordained unto this priesthood, whose mission is appointed unto them to go forth— And this is the aensample unto them, that they shall bspeak as they are moved upon by the Holy Ghost.
And whatsoever they shall speak when moved upon by the aHoly Ghost shall be scripture, shall be the will of the Lord, shall be the mind of the Lord, shall be the word of the Lord, shall be the voice of the Lord, and the bpower of God unto salvation.
Behold, this is the promise of the Lord unto you, O ye my servants.
Wherefore, be of good acheer, and do not bfear, for I the Lord am with you, and will stand by you; and ye shall bear record of me, even Jesus Christ, that I am the Son of the living God, that I cwas, that I am, and that I am to come.
This is the word of the Lord unto you, my servant Orson Hyde, and also unto my servant Luke Johnson, and unto my servant Lyman Johnson, and unto my servant aWilliam E. McLellin, and unto all the faithful elders of my church— aGo ye into all the world, bpreach the gospel to every ccreature, acting in the dauthority which I have given you, ebaptizing in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost.
And ahe that believeth and is baptized shall be saved, and he that believeth not shall be bdamned.
And he that believeth shall be blest with asigns following, even as it is written.
And unto you it shall be given to know the signs of the atimes, and the bsigns of the coming of the Son of Man; And of as many as the Father shall bear record, to you shall be given power to aseal them up unto eternal life.
Amen.
And now, concerning the items in addition to the acovenants and commandments, they are these— There remain hereafter, in the due time of the Lord, other abishops to be set apart unto the bchurch, to minister even according to the first; Wherefore they shall be ahigh priests who are worthy, and they shall be appointed by the bFirst Presidency of the Melchizedek Priesthood, except they be literal descendants of cAaron.
And if they be literal descendants of aAaron they have a legal right to the bishopric, if they are the bfirstborn among the sons of Aaron; For the firstborn holds the right of the presidency over this priesthood, and the akeys or authority of the same.
No man has a legal right to this office, to hold the keys of this priesthood, except he be a aliteral descendant and the firstborn of Aaron.
But, as a ahigh priest of the Melchizedek Priesthood has authority to officiate in all the lesser offices he may officiate in the office of bbishop when no literal descendant of Aaron can be found, provided he is called and set apart and ordained unto this power, under the hands of the First Presidency of the Melchizedek Priesthood.
And a literal descendant of Aaron, also, must be designated by this Presidency, and found worthy, and aanointed, and ordained under the hands of this Presidency, otherwise they are not legally authorized to officiate in their priesthood.
But, by virtue of the decree concerning their right of the priesthood descending from father to son, they may claim their aanointing if at any time they can prove their lineage, or do ascertain it by revelation from the Lord under the bhands of the above named Presidency.
And again, no bishop or high priest who shall be set apart for this ministry shall be tried or acondemned for any crime, save it be before the bFirst Presidency of the church; And inasmuch as he is found aguilty before this Presidency, by testimony that cannot be impeached, he shall be condemned; And if he repent he shall be aforgiven, according to the covenants and bcommandments of the church.
And again, inasmuch as aparents have children in Zion, or in any of her bstakes which are organized, that cteach them not to understand the ddoctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands, when eeight years old, the fsin be upon the heads of the parents.
For this shall be a law unto the ainhabitants of Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized.
And their children shall be abaptized for the bremission of their sins when ceight years old, and receive the laying on of the hands.
And they shall also ateach their children to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord.
And the inhabitants of Zion shall also observe the aSabbath day to keep it holy.
And the inhabitants of Zion also shall remember their alabors, inasmuch as they are appointed to labor, in all faithfulness; for the bidler shall be had in remembrance before the Lord.
Now, I, the Lord, am not well apleased with the inhabitants of Zion, for there are bidlers among them; and their cchildren are also growing up in dwickedness; they also eseek not earnestly the riches of eternity, but their eyes are full of fgreediness.
These things ought not to be, and must be done away from among them; wherefore, let my servant Oliver Cowdery acarry these sayings unto the land of Zion.
And a commandment I give unto them—that he that observeth not his aprayers before the Lord in the season thereof, let him be had in bremembrance before the judge of my people.
These sayings are atrue and faithful; wherefore, transgress them not, neither btake therefrom.
Behold, I am aAlpha and Omega, and I bcome quickly.
Amen.
 And the Lord said unto me: aJohn, my beloved, what bdesirest thou?
For if you shall ask what you will, it shall be granted unto you.
And I said unto him: Lord, give unto me apower over bdeath, that I may live and bring souls unto thee.
And the Lord said unto me: Verily, verily, I say unto thee, because thou desirest this thou shalt atarry until I come in my bglory, and shalt cprophesy before nations, kindreds, tongues and people.
And for this cause the Lord said unto Peter: If I will that he tarry till I come, what is that to thee?
For he desired of me that he might bring asouls unto me, but thou desiredst that thou mightest speedily come unto me in my bkingdom.
I say unto thee, Peter, this was a good desire; but my beloved has desired that he might do more, or a greater awork yet among men than what he has before done.
Yea, he has undertaken a greater work; therefore I will make him as flaming fire and a aministering angel; he shall minister for those who shall be bheirs of salvation who dwell on the earth.
And I will make thee to minister for him and for thy brother James; and unto you three I will agive this power and the bkeys of this ministry until I come.
Verily I say unto you, ye shall both have according to your desires, for ye both ajoy in that which ye have desired.
 Behold, and hearken, O ye inhabitants of Zion, and all ye people of my church who are afar off, and ahear the word of the Lord which I give unto my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., and also unto my servant Martin Harris, and also unto my servant Oliver Cowdery, and also unto my servant John Whitmer, and also unto my servant Sidney Rigdon, and also unto my servant bWilliam W. Phelps, by the way of commandment unto them.
For I give unto them a commandment; wherefore hearken and hear, for thus saith the Lord unto them— I, the Lord, have appointed them, and ordained them to be astewards over the revelations and commandments which I have given unto them, and which I shall hereafter give unto them; And an account of this astewardship will I require of them in the day of judgment.
Wherefore, I have appointed unto them, and this is their business in the church of God, to amanage them and the concerns thereof, yea, the benefits thereof.
Wherefore, a commandment I give unto them, that they shall not give these things unto the church, neither unto the aworld; Nevertheless, inasmuch as they areceive more than is needful for their necessities and their wants, it shall be given into my bstorehouse; And the abenefits shall be consecrated unto the inhabitants of Zion, and unto their generations, inasmuch as they become bheirs according to the laws of the kingdom.
Behold, this is what the Lord requires of every man in his astewardship, even as I, the Lord, have appointed or shall hereafter appoint unto any man.
And behold, none are exempt from this alaw who belong to the church of the living God; Yea, neither the bishop, neither the aagent who keepeth the Lord’s storehouse, neither he who is appointed in a stewardship over btemporal things.
He who is appointed to administer spiritual things, the same is aworthy of his hire, even as those who are appointed to a stewardship to administer in temporal things; Yea, even more abundantly, which abundance is multiplied unto them through the amanifestations of the Spirit.
Nevertheless, in your temporal things you shall be aequal, and this not grudgingly, otherwise the abundance of the manifestations of the Spirit shall be bwithheld.
Now, this commandment I give unto my servants for their abenefit while they remain, for a manifestation of my blessings upon their heads, and for a breward of their cdiligence and for their security; For food and for araiment; for an inheritance; for houses and for lands, in whatsoever circumstances I, the Lord, shall place them, and whithersoever I, the Lord, shall send them.
For they have been faithful over amany things, and have done well inasmuch as they have not sinned.
Behold, I, the Lord, am amerciful and will bless them, and they shall enter into the joy of these things.
Even so.
Amen.
 Behold, thus saith the Lord unto you my servants Joseph Smith, Jun., and Sidney Rigdon, that the time has verily come that it is necessary and expedient in me that you should open your mouths in aproclaiming my gospel, the things of the kingdom, expounding the bmysteries thereof out of the scriptures, according to that portion of Spirit and power which shall be given unto you, even as I will.
Verily I say unto you, proclaim unto the world in the regions round about, and in the church also, for the space of a season, even until it shall be amade known unto you.
Verily this is a mission for a season, which I give unto you.
Wherefore, alabor ye in my vineyard.
Call upon the inhabitants of the earth, and bear record, and prepare the way for the commandments and revelations which are to come.
Now, behold this is wisdom; whoso readeth, let him aunderstand and breceive also; For unto him that receiveth it shall be given more aabundantly, even power.
Wherefore, aconfound your benemies; call upon them to cmeet you both in public and in private; and inasmuch as ye are faithful their dshame shall be made manifest.
Wherefore, let them bring forth their astrong reasons against the Lord.
Verily, thus saith the Lord unto you—there is no aweapon that is formed against you shall prosper; And if any man lift his voice against you he shall be aconfounded in mine own due time.
Wherefore, akeep my commandments; they are true and faithful.
Even so.
Amen.
 For verily, thus saith the Lord, it is expedient in me that athey should continue preaching the gospel, and in exhortation to the churches in the regions round about, until conference; And then, behold, it shall be made known unto them, by the avoice of the conference, their several missions.
Now, verily I say unto you my servants, Joseph Smith, Jun., and Sidney Rigdon, saith the Lord, it is aexpedient to btranslate again; And, inasmuch as it is practicable, to preach in the regions round about until conference; and after that it is expedient to continue the work of atranslation until it be finished.
And let this be a pattern unto the elders until further knowledge, even as it is written.
Now I give no more unto you at this time.
aGird up your loins and be sober.
Even so.
Amen.
 Verily, verily, I say unto you, I who speak even by the avoice of my Spirit, even bAlpha and Omega, your Lord and your God— Hearken, O ye who have agiven your names to go forth to proclaim my gospel, and to bprune my vineyard.
Behold, I say unto you that it is my will that you should go forth and not tarry, neither be aidle but blabor with your might— Lifting up your voices as with the sound of a trump, aproclaiming the btruth according to the revelations and commandments which I have given you.
And thus, if ye are faithful ye shall be laden with many asheaves, and bcrowned with honor, and glory, and immortality, and eternal life.
Therefore, verily I say unto my servant aWilliam E. McLellin, I brevoke the commission which I gave unto him to go unto the eastern countries; And I give unto him a new commission and a new commandment, in the which I, the Lord, achasten him for the bmurmurings of his heart; And he sinned; nevertheless, I forgive him and say unto him again, Go ye into the south countries.
And let my servant Luke Johnson go with him, and proclaim the things which I have commanded them— Calling on the name of the Lord for the aComforter, which shall teach them all things that are expedient for them— aPraying always that they bfaint not; and inasmuch as they do this, I will be with them even unto the end.
Behold, this is the will of the Lord your God concerning you.
Even so.
Amen.
And again, verily thus saith the Lord, let my servant Orson Hyde and my servant Samuel H. Smith take their journey into the eastern countries, and proclaim the things which I have commanded them; and inasmuch as they are faithful, lo, I will be awith them even unto the end.
And again, verily I say unto my servant Lyman Johnson, and unto my servant Orson Pratt, they shall also take their journey into the eastern countries; and behold, and lo, I am with them also, even unto the end.
And again, I say unto my servant Asa Dodds, and unto my servant Calves Wilson, that they also shall take their journey unto the western countries, and proclaim my gospel, even as I have commanded them.
And he who is faithful shall overcome all things, and shall be alifted up at the last day.
And again, I say unto my servant Major N. Ashley, and my servant Burr Riggs, let them take their journey also into the south country.
Yea, let all those take their journey, as I have commanded them, going from ahouse to house, and from village to village, and from city to city.
And in whatsoever house ye enter, and they receive you, leave your blessing upon that house.
And in whatsoever house ye enter, and they receive you not, ye shall depart speedily from that house, and ashake off the dust of your feet as a testimony against them.
And you shall be filled with ajoy and gladness; and know this, that in the day of judgment you shall be bjudges of that house, and condemn them; And it shall be more atolerable for the bheathen in the day of judgment, than for that house; therefore, cgird up your loins and be faithful, and ye shall overcome all things, and be dlifted up at the last day.
Even so.
Amen.
And again, thus saith the Lord unto you, O ye elders of my church, who have agiven your names that you might know his will concerning you— Behold, I say unto you, that it is the aduty of the church to assist in bsupporting the families of those, and also to support the families of those who are called and must needs be sent unto the world to proclaim the gospel unto the world.
Wherefore, I, the Lord, give unto you this commandment, that ye obtain places for your afamilies, inasmuch as your brethren are willing to open their hearts.
And let all such as can obtain places for their families, and support of the church for them, not fail to go into the world, whether to the east or to the west, or to the north, or to the south.
Let them aask and they shall receive, knock and it shall be opened unto them, and be made known from on high, even by the bComforter, whither they shall go.
And again, verily I say unto you, that every aman who is obliged to bprovide for his own cfamily, let him provide, and he shall in nowise lose his crown; and let him labor in the church.
Let every man be adiligent in all things.
And the bidler shall not have place in the church, except he repent and mend his ways.
Wherefore, let my servant Simeon Carter and my servant Emer Harris be united in the ministry; And also my servant Ezra Thayre and my servant aThomas B. Marsh; Also my servant Hyrum Smith and my servant Reynolds Cahoon; And also my servant Daniel Stanton and my servant Seymour Brunson; And also my servant Sylvester Smith and my servant Gideon Carter; And also my servant Ruggles Eames and my servant aStephen Burnett; And also my servant Micah B. Welton and also my servant aEden Smith.
Even so.
Amen.
 aHear, O ye heavens, and give ear, O earth, and rejoice ye inhabitants thereof, for the Lord is bGod, and beside him there is cno dSavior.
aGreat is his wisdom, bmarvelous are his ways, and the extent of his doings none can find out.
His apurposes fail not, neither are there any who can stay his hand.
From eternity to eternity he is the asame, and his years never bfail.
For thus saith the Lord—I, the Lord, am amerciful and gracious unto those who bfear me, and delight to honor those who cserve me in righteousness and in truth unto the end.
Great shall be their reward and eternal shall be their aglory.
And to them will I areveal all bmysteries, yea, all the hidden mysteries of my kingdom from days of old, and for ages to come, will I make known unto them the good pleasure of my will concerning all things pertaining to my kingdom.
Yea, even the wonders of aeternity shall they know, and things to come will I show them, even the things of many generations.
And their awisdom shall be great, and their bunderstanding reach to heaven; and before them the wisdom of the wise shall cperish, and the understanding of the dprudent shall come to naught.
For by my aSpirit will I benlighten them, and by my cpower will I make known unto them the dsecrets of my ewill—yea, even those things which feye has not seen, nor ear heard, nor yet entered into the heart of man.
We, Joseph Smith, Jun., and Sidney Rigdon, being ain the Spirit on the sixteenth day of February, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and thirty-two— By the power of the aSpirit our beyes were opened and our understandings were enlightened, so as to see and understand the things of God— Even those things which were from the beginning before the world was, which were ordained of the Father, through his Only Begotten Son, who was in the bosom of the Father, even from the abeginning; Of whom we bear record; and the record which we bear is the fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ, who is the Son, whom we saw and with whom we aconversed in the heavenly bvision.
For while we were doing the work of atranslation, which the Lord had appointed unto us, we came to the twenty-ninth verse of the fifth chapter of John, which was given unto us as follows— Speaking of the resurrection of the dead, concerning those who shall ahear the voice of the bSon of Man: And shall come forth; athey who have done bgood, in the cresurrection of the djust; and they who have done evil, in the resurrection of the unjust.
Now this caused us to marvel, for it was given unto us of the Spirit.
And while we ameditated upon these things, the Lord touched the eyes of our understandings and they were opened, and the bglory of the Lord shone round about.
And we beheld the aglory of the Son, on the bright hand of the cFather, and received of his fulness; And saw the holy aangels, and them who are bsanctified before his throne, worshiping God, and the Lamb, who cworship him forever and ever.
And now, after the many testimonies which have been given of him, this is the atestimony, last of all, which we give of him: That he blives!
For we asaw him, even on the bright hand of cGod; and we heard the voice bearing record that he is the dOnly Begotten of the Father— That by ahim, and through him, and of him, the bworlds are and were created, and the cinhabitants thereof are begotten dsons and daughters unto God.
And this we saw also, and bear record, that an aangel of God who was in authority in the presence of God, who brebelled against the Only Begotten cSon whom the Father dloved and who was in the bosom of the Father, was thrust down from the presence of God and the Son, And was called aPerdition, for the heavens bwept over him—he was cLucifer, a son of the morning.
And we beheld, and lo, he is afallen!
is fallen, even a son of the morning!
And while we were yet in the Spirit, the Lord commanded us that we should write the vision; for we beheld Satan, that old aserpent, even the bdevil, who rebelled against God, and sought to take the kingdom of our cGod and his Christ— Wherefore, he maketh awar with the saints of God, and encompasseth them round about.
And we saw a vision of the asufferings of those with whom he made war and overcame, for thus came the voice of the Lord unto us: Thus saith the Lord concerning all those who know my power, and have been made partakers thereof, and asuffered themselves through the power of the devil to be overcome, and to deny the truth and defy my power— They are they who are the asons of bperdition, of whom I say that it had been better for them never to have been born; For they are avessels of wrath, doomed to suffer the wrath of God, with the devil and his angels in eternity; Concerning whom I have said there is ano bforgiveness in this world nor in the world to come— Having adenied the Holy Spirit after having received it, and having denied the Only Begotten Son of the Father, having bcrucified him unto themselves and put him to an open cshame.
These are they who shall go away into the alake of fire and brimstone, with the devil and his angels— And the aonly ones on whom the bsecond cdeath shall have any power; Yea, verily, the only ones who shall anot be redeemed in the due time of the Lord, after the sufferings of his wrath.
For all the rest shall be abrought forth by the resurrection of the dead, through the btriumph and the glory of the Lamb, who was slain, who was in the bosom of the Father cbefore the worlds were made.
And this is the agospel, the glad btidings, which the voice out of the heavens bore record unto us— That he acame into the world, even Jesus, to be bcrucified for the world, and to cbear the sins of the dworld, and to esanctify the world, and to fcleanse it from all unrighteousness; That through him all might be asaved whom the Father had put into his bpower and made by him; Who aglorifies the Father, and saves all the works of his hands, except those sons of bperdition who deny the Son after the Father has revealed him.
Wherefore, he saves all aexcept them—they shall go away into beverlasting cpunishment, which is endless punishment, which is eternal punishment, to dreign with the edevil and his angels in eternity, where their fworm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched, which is their torment— And the aend thereof, neither the place thereof, nor their torment, no man knows; Neither was it revealed, neither is, neither will be revealed unto man, except to them who are made partakers thereof; Nevertheless, I, the Lord, show it by avision unto many, but straightway shut it up again; Wherefore, the end, the width, the height, the adepth, and the misery thereof, they understand not, neither any man except those who are bordained unto this ccondemnation.
And we heard the voice, saying: aWrite the vision, for lo, this is the end of the vision of the sufferings of the ungodly.
And again we bear record—for we asaw and heard, and this is the btestimony of the cgospel of Christ concerning them who shall come forth in the resurrection of the djust— They are they who received the atestimony of Jesus, and bbelieved on his name and were cbaptized after the dmanner of his burial, being eburied in the water in his name, and this according to the commandment which he has given— That by akeeping the commandments they might be bwashed and ccleansed from all their sins, and receive the Holy Spirit by the laying on of the dhands of him who is eordained and sealed unto this power; And who aovercome by faith, and are bsealed by the Holy Spirit of cpromise, which the Father dsheds forth upon all those who are just and true.
They are they who are the achurch of the bFirstborn.
They are they into whose hands the Father has given aall things— They are they who are apriests and bkings, who have received of his fulness, and of his glory; And are apriests of the Most High, after the order of Melchizedek, which was after the order of bEnoch, which was after the corder of the Only Begotten Son.
Wherefore, as it is written, they are agods, even the bsons of cGod— Wherefore, aall things are theirs, whether life or death, or things present, or things to come, all are theirs and they are Christ’s, and Christ is God’s.
And they shall aovercome all things.
Wherefore, let no man aglory in man, but rather let him bglory in God, who shall csubdue all enemies under his feet.
These shall adwell in the bpresence of God and his Christ forever and ever.
These are they whom he shall bring with him, when he shall acome in the bclouds of heaven to creign on the earth over his people.
These are they who shall have part in the afirst resurrection.
These are they who shall come forth in the resurrection of the ajust.
These are they who are come unto aMount bZion, and unto the city of the living God, the heavenly place, the holiest of all.
These are they who have come to an innumerable company of aangels, to the general assembly and church of bEnoch, and of the cFirstborn.
These are they whose names are awritten in heaven, where God and Christ are the bjudge of all.
These are they who are ajust men made bperfect through Jesus the mediator of the cnew covenant, who wrought out this perfect datonement through the shedding of his own eblood.
These are they whose bodies are acelestial, whose bglory is that of the csun, even the glory of God, the dhighest of all, whose glory the sun of the firmament is written of as being typical.
And again, we saw the aterrestrial world, and behold and lo, these are they who are of the terrestrial, whose glory differs from that of the church of the bFirstborn who have received the fulness of the Father, even as that of the cmoon differs from the sun in the firmament.
Behold, these are they who died awithout blaw; And also they who are the aspirits of men kept in bprison, whom the Son visited, and cpreached the dgospel unto them, that they might be judged according to men in the flesh; Who areceived not the btestimony of Jesus in the flesh, but afterwards received it.
These are they who are ahonorable men of the earth, who were bblinded by the craftiness of men.
These are they who receive of his glory, but not of his fulness.
These are they who receive of the apresence of the Son, but not of the fulness of the Father.
Wherefore, they are abodies terrestrial, and not bodies celestial, and differ in glory as the moon differs from the sun.
These are they who are not avaliant in the btestimony of Jesus; wherefore, they obtain not the crown over the kingdom of our God.
And now this is the end of the avision which we saw of the terrestrial, that the Lord commanded us to bwrite while we were yet in the Spirit.
And again, we asaw the glory of the btelestial, which glory is that of the lesser, even as the cglory of the stars differs from that of the glory of the moon in the firmament.
These are they who received not the gospel of Christ, neither the atestimony of Jesus.
These are they who adeny not the Holy Spirit.
These are they who are thrust down to ahell.
These are they who shall not be redeemed from the adevil until the blast resurrection, until the Lord, even Christ the cLamb, shall have finished his work.
These are they who receive not of his fulness in the eternal world, but of the Holy Spirit through the ministration of the terrestrial; And the terrestrial through the aministration of the celestial.
And also the telestial receive it of the administering of angels who are appointed to minister for them, or who are appointed to be aministering spirits for them; for they shall be bheirs of salvation.
And thus we saw, in the heavenly vision, the glory of the atelestial, which surpasses all understanding; And no man knows it except him to whom God has revealed it.
And thus we saw the glory of the aterrestrial which excels in all things the glory of the telestial, even in glory, and in power, and in might, and in dominion.
And thus we saw the aglory of the celestial, which bexcels in all things—where God, even the Father, reigns upon his cthrone forever and ever; Before whose throne all things bow in humble areverence, and give him glory forever and ever.
They who dwell in his apresence are the church of the bFirstborn; and they see as they are seen, and cknow as they are known, having received of his fulness and of his dgrace; And he makes them aequal in power, and in might, and in dominion.
And the glory of the celestial is one, even as the glory of the asun is one.
And the glory of the terrestrial is one, even as the glory of the moon is one.
And the glory of the telestial is one, even as the glory of the stars is one; for as one star differs from another star in glory, even so differs one from another in glory in the telestial world; For these are they who are of aPaul, and of Apollos, and of Cephas.
These are they who say they are some of one and some of another—some of Christ and some of John, and some of Moses, and some of Elias, and some of aEsaias, and some of Isaiah, and some of Enoch; But areceived not the gospel, neither the testimony of Jesus, neither the prophets, neither the beverlasting covenant.
Last of all, these all are they who will not be agathered with the saints, to be bcaught up unto the cchurch of the Firstborn, and received into the cloud.
These are athey who are bliars, and csorcerers, and dadulterers, and ewhoremongers, and whosoever loves and makes a lie.
These are they who suffer the awrath of God on earth.
These are they who suffer the avengeance of eternal fire.
These are they who are cast down to ahell and bsuffer the wrath of cAlmighty God, until the dfulness of times, when Christ shall have esubdued all enemies under his ffeet, and shall have gperfected his work; When he shall adeliver up the bkingdom, and present it unto the Father, spotless, saying: I have covercome and have dtrodden the ewine-press falone, even the wine-press of the fierceness of the wrath of Almighty God.
Then shall he be acrowned with the crown of his glory, to sit on the bthrone of his power to reign forever and ever.
But behold, and lo, we saw the glory and the inhabitants of the telestial world, that they were as ainnumerable as the stars in the firmament of heaven, or as the sand upon the seashore; And heard the voice of the Lord saying: These all shall bow the knee, and every tongue shall aconfess to him who sits upon the throne forever and ever; For they shall be judged according to their aworks, and every man shall receive according to his own bworks, his own cdominion, in the dmansions which are prepared; And they shall be aservants of the Most High; but bwhere God and Christ cdwell they dcannot come, eworlds without end.
This is the end of the vision which we saw, which we were commanded to write while we were yet in the Spirit.
But agreat and marvelous are the works of the Lord, and the bmysteries of his kingdom which he showed unto us, which surpass all understanding in glory, and in might, and in dominion; Which he commanded us we should not write while we were yet in the Spirit, and are not alawful for man to utter; Neither is man acapable to make them known, for they are only to be bseen and cunderstood by the power of the Holy Spirit, which God bestows on those who dlove him, and purify themselves before him; To whom he grants this privilege of aseeing and knowing for themselves; That through the power and manifestation of the Spirit, while in the flesh, they may be able to abear his bpresence in the world of glory.
And to God and the Lamb be aglory, and honor, and dominion forever and ever.
Amen.
 The Lord spake unto Joseph Smith, Jun., saying: Hearken unto me, saith the Lord your God, who are ordained unto the ahigh priesthood of my church, who have assembled yourselves together; And listen to the acounsel of him who has bordained you from on high, who shall speak in your ears the words of cwisdom, that salvation may be unto you in that thing which you have presented before me, saith the Lord God.
For verily I say unto you, the time has come, and is now at hand; and behold, and lo, it must needs be that there be an aorganization of my people, in regulating and establishing the affairs of the bstorehouse for the cpoor of my people, both in this place and in the land of dZion— For a permanent and everlasting establishment and order unto my church, to advance the cause, which ye have espoused, to the salvation of man, and to the glory of your Father who is in heaven; That you may be aequal in the bonds of heavenly things, yea, and earthly things also, for the obtaining of heavenly things.
For if ye are not equal in earthly things ye cannot be aequal in obtaining heavenly things; For if you will that I give unto you a place in the acelestial world, you must bprepare yourselves by cdoing the things which I have commanded you and required of you.
And now, verily thus saith the Lord, it is expedient that all things be done unto my aglory, by you who are joined together in this border; Or, in other words, let my servant Newel K. Whitney and my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., and my servant Sidney Rigdon sit in council with the saints which are in aZion; Otherwise aSatan seeketh to turn their bhearts away from the truth, that they become cblinded and understand not the things which are prepared for them.
Wherefore, a commandment I give unto you, to prepare and organize yourselves by a abond or everlasting bcovenant that cannot be broken.
And he who breaketh it shall lose his office and standing in the church, and shall be adelivered over to the bbuffetings of Satan until the day of redemption.
Behold, this is the preparation wherewith I prepare you, and the foundation, and the aensample which I give unto you, whereby you may accomplish the commandments which are given you; That through my providence, notwithstanding the atribulation which shall descend upon you, that the church may stand independent above all other creatures beneath the celestial world; That you may come up unto the acrown prepared for you, and be made brulers over many kingdoms, saith the Lord God, the Holy One of Zion, who hath established the foundations of cAdam-ondi-Ahman; Who hath appointed aMichael your prince, and established his feet, and set him upon high, and given unto him the keys of salvation under the counsel and direction of the bHoly One, who is without beginning of days or end of life.
Verily, verily, I say unto you, ye are alittle children, and ye have not as yet understood how great blessings the Father hath in his own hands and prepared for you; And ye cannot abear all things now; nevertheless, be of good bcheer, for I will clead you along.
The kingdom is yours and the blessings thereof are yours, and the driches of eeternity are yours.
And he who receiveth all things with athankfulness shall be made glorious; and the things of this earth shall be added unto him, even an bhundred fold, yea, more.
Wherefore, do the things which I have commanded you, saith your Redeemer, even the Son aAhman, who prepareth all things before he btaketh you; For ye are the achurch of the bFirstborn, and he will take you up in a ccloud, and appoint every man his portion.
And he that is a faithful and awise bsteward shall inherit call things.
Amen.
 Verily I say unto you, that it is my will that my servant Jared Carter should go again into the eastern countries, from place to place, and from city to city, in the power of the aordination wherewith he has been ordained, proclaiming glad tidings of great joy, even the beverlasting gospel.
And I will send upon him the aComforter, which shall teach him the truth and the bway whither he shall go; And inasmuch as he is faithful, I will crown him again with asheaves.
Wherefore, let your heart be glad, my servant Jared Carter, and afear not, saith your Lord, even Jesus Christ.
Amen.
 aOliver Cowdery, verily, verily, I say unto you, that assuredly as the Lord liveth, who is your God and your Redeemer, even so surely shall you receive a bknowledge of whatsoever things you shall cask in faith, with an dhonest heart, believing that you shall receive a eknowledge concerning the engravings of old frecords, which are ancient, which contain those parts of my scripture of which has been spoken by the gmanifestation of my Spirit.
Yea, behold, I will atell you in your mind and in your bheart, by the cHoly Ghost, which shall come upon you and which shall dwell in your heart.
Now, behold, this is the spirit of revelation; behold, this is the spirit by which Moses abrought the children of Israel through the Red Sea on dry ground.
Therefore this is thy agift; apply unto it, and blessed art thou, for it shall bdeliver you out of the hands of your cenemies, when, if it were not so, they would slay you and bring your soul to destruction.
Oh, remember these awords, and keep my commandments.
Remember, this is your gift.
Now this is not all thy agift; for you have another gift, which is the gift of Aaron; behold, it has told you many things; Behold, there is no other power, save the power of God, that can cause this gift of Aaron to be with you.
Therefore, adoubt not, for it is the gift of God; and you shall hold it in your hands, and do marvelous works; and no power shall be able to take it away out of your hands, for it is the bwork of God.
And, therefore, whatsoever you shall ask me to tell you by that means, that will I grant unto you, and you shall have knowledge concerning it.
Remember that without afaith you can do nothing; therefore ask in faith.
Trifle not with these things; do not bask for that which you ought not.
Ask that you may know the mysteries of God, and that you may atranslate and receive knowledge from all those ancient records which have been hid up, that are bsacred; and according to your faith shall it be done unto you.
Behold, it is I that have spoken it; and I am the same that spake unto you from the beginning.
Amen.
 Verily, thus saith the Lord unto you my servant aStephen Burnett: Go ye, go ye into the world and preach the gospel to every bcreature that cometh under the sound of your voice.
And inasmuch as you desire a companion, I will give unto you my servant aEden Smith.
Wherefore, go ye and preach my gospel, whether to the north or to the south, to the east or to the west, it mattereth not, for ye cannot go amiss.
Therefore, declare the things which ye have heard, and verily believe, and aknow to be true.
Behold, this is the will of him who hath acalled you, your Redeemer, even Jesus Christ.
Amen.
 Verily, verily, I say unto you, my servants, that inasmuch as you have aforgiven one another your trespasses, even so I, the Lord, forgive you.
Nevertheless, there are those among you who have sinned exceedingly; yea, even aall of you have sinned; but verily I say unto you, beware from henceforth, and brefrain from sin, lest sore judgments fall upon your heads.
For of him unto whom amuch is bgiven much is crequired; and he who dsins against the greater elight shall freceive the greater gcondemnation.
Ye call upon my name for arevelations, and I give them unto you; and inasmuch as ye keep not my sayings, which I give unto you, ye become transgressors; and bjustice and judgment are the penalty which is affixed unto my law.
Therefore, what I say unto one I say unto all: aWatch, for the badversary cspreadeth his dominions, and ddarkness reigneth; And the anger of God kindleth against the inhabitants of the earth; and anone doeth good, for all have gone out of the bway.
And now, verily I say unto you, I, the Lord, will not lay any asin to your charge; go your ways and sin no more; but unto that soul who sinneth shall the bformer sins return, saith the Lord your God.
And again, I say unto you, I give unto you a anew commandment, that you may understand my will concerning you; Or, in other words, I give unto you directions how you may aact before me, that it may bturn to you for your salvation.
I, the Lord, am abound when ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say, ye have no bpromise.
Therefore, verily I say unto you, that it is expedient for my servants Edward Partridge and Newel K. Whitney, A. Sidney Gilbert and Sidney Rigdon, and my servant Joseph Smith, and John Whitmer and Oliver Cowdery, and W. W. Phelps and Martin Harris to be bound atogether by a bond and covenant that cannot be bbroken by transgression, except judgment shall immediately follow, in your several cstewardships— To manage the affairs of the poor, and all things pertaining to the bishopric aboth in the land of Zion and in the land of Kirtland; For I have consecrated the land of Kirtland in mine own due time for the benefit of the saints of the Most High, and for a astake to Zion.
For aZion must increase in bbeauty, and in choliness; her borders must be enlarged; her dstakes must be strengthened; yea, verily I say unto you, Zion must earise and put on her fbeautiful garments.
Therefore, I give unto you this commandment, that ye bind yourselves by this covenant, and it shall be done according to the laws of the Lord.
Behold, here is awisdom also in me for your good.
And you are to be aequal, or in other words, you are to have equal bclaims on the cproperties, for the benefit of dmanaging the concerns of your stewardships, every man according to his wants and his needs, inasmuch as his wants are just— And all this for the benefit of the church of the living God, that every man may aimprove upon his btalent, that every man may cgain other dtalents, yea, even an hundred fold, to be cast into the Lord’s estorehouse, to become the common fproperty of the whole church— aEvery man seeking the interest of his bneighbor, and doing all things with an ceye single to the glory of God.
This order I have appointed to be an aeverlasting border unto you, and unto your successors, inasmuch as you sin not.
And the soul that sins against this covenant, and ahardeneth his heart against it, shall be dealt with according to the laws of my church, and shall be delivered over to the bbuffetings of Satan until the day of redemption.
And now, verily I say unto you, and this is wisdom, make unto yourselves friends with the amammon of unrighteousness, and they will not destroy you.
Leave judgment alone with me, for it is mine and I will arepay.
Peace be with you; my blessings continue with you.
For even yet the akingdom is yours, and shall be forever, if you fall not from your bsteadfastness.
Even so.
Amen.
 Verily, thus saith the Lord, in addition to the alaws of the church concerning women and children, those who belong to the church, who have blost their husbands or fathers: aWomen have bclaim on their husbands for their maintenance, until their chusbands are taken; and if they are not found transgressors they shall have fellowship in the church.
And if they are not faithful they shall not have fellowship in the church; yet they may remain upon their inheritances according to the laws of the land.
All achildren have claim upon their bparents for their cmaintenance until they are of age.
And after that, they have aclaim upon the church, or in other words upon the Lord’s bstorehouse, if their parents have not wherewith to give them inheritances.
And the storehouse shall be kept by the consecrations of the church; and awidows and orphans shall be provided for, as also the bpoor.
Amen.
 Verily, thus saith the Lord concerning the awars that will bshortly come to pass, beginning at the rebellion of cSouth Carolina, which will eventually terminate in the death and misery of many souls; And the atime will come that bwar will be poured out upon all nations, beginning at this place.
For behold, the Southern States shall be divided against the Northern States, and the Southern States will call on other nations, even the nation of Great Britain, as it is called, and they shall also call upon other nations, in order to defend themselves against other nations; and then awar shall be poured out upon all nations.
And it shall come to pass, after many days, aslaves shall rise up against their masters, who shall be marshaled and disciplined for war.
And it shall come to pass also that the aremnants who are left of the land will marshal themselves, and shall become exceedingly angry, and shall vex the Gentiles with a sore vexation.
And thus, with the asword and by bloodshed the inhabitants of the earth shall bmourn; and with cfamine, and plague, and earthquake, and the thunder of heaven, and the fierce and vivid lightning also, shall the inhabitants of the earth be made to feel the wrath, and indignation, and dchastening ehand of an Almighty God, until the consumption decreed hath made a full fend of all gnations; That the cry of the saints, and of the ablood of the saints, shall cease to come up into the ears of the Lord of bSabaoth, from the earth, to be avenged of their enemies.
Wherefore, astand ye in holy places, and be not moved, until the day of the Lord come; for behold, it cometh bquickly, saith the Lord.
Amen.
 Verily, thus saith the Lord unto you who have assembled yourselves together to receive his will concerning you: Behold, this is pleasing unto your Lord, and the angels arejoice over you; the balms of your prayers have come up into the ears of the Lord of cSabaoth, and are recorded in the dbook of the names of the sanctified, even them of the celestial world.
Wherefore, I now send upon you another aComforter, even upon you my friends, that it may abide in your hearts, even the Holy Spirit of bpromise; which other Comforter is the same that I promised unto my disciples, as is recorded in the testimony of John.
This Comforter is the apromise which I give unto you of beternal life, even the cglory of the celestial kingdom; Which glory is that of the church of the aFirstborn, even of God, the holiest of all, through Jesus Christ his Son— He that aascended up on high, as also he bdescended below all things, in that he ccomprehended all things, that he might be in all and through all things, the dlight of truth; Which truth shineth.
This is the alight of Christ.
As also he is in the sun, and the light of the sun, and the power thereof by which it was bmade.
As also he is in the moon, and is the light of the moon, and the power thereof by which it was made; As also the light of the stars, and the power thereof by which they were made; And the earth also, and the power thereof, even the earth upon which you astand.
And the light which shineth, which giveth you light, is through him who enlighteneth your eyes, which is the same light that quickeneth your aunderstandings; Which alight proceedeth forth from the presence of God to bfill the immensity of space— The alight which is in all things, which giveth blife to all things, which is the claw by which all things are governed, even the dpower of God who esitteth upon his throne, who is in the bosom of eternity, who is in the midst of all things.
Now, verily I say unto you, that through the aredemption which is made for you is brought to pass the resurrection from the dead.
And the aspirit and the bbody are the csoul of man.
And the aresurrection from the dead is the redemption of the soul.
And the redemption of the soul is through him that aquickeneth all things, in whose bosom it is decreed that the bpoor and the cmeek of the dearth shall inherit it.
Therefore, it must needs be asanctified from all bunrighteousness, that it may be prepared for the ccelestial glory; For after it hath filled the measure of its creation, it shall be crowned with aglory, even with the presence of God the Father; That bodies who are of the acelestial kingdom may bpossess it forever and ever; for, for this cintent was it made and created, and for this intent are they dsanctified.
And they who are not asanctified through the blaw which I have given unto you, even the law of Christ, must inherit canother kingdom, even that of a terrestrial kingdom, or that of a telestial kingdom.
For he who is not able to abide the alaw of a celestial kingdom cannot babide a ccelestial glory.
And he who cannot abide the law of a aterrestrial kingdom cannot abide a terrestrial glory.
And he who cannot abide the law of a atelestial bkingdom cannot abide a telestial cglory; therefore he is not meet for a kingdom of glory.
Therefore he must abide a kingdom which is not a kingdom of glory.
And again, verily I say unto you, the aearth abideth the law of a celestial kingdom, for it filleth the bmeasure of its creation, and transgresseth not the law— Wherefore, it shall be asanctified; yea, notwithstanding it shall bdie, it shall be cquickened again, and shall abide the power by which it is quickened, and the drighteous shall einherit it.
For notwithstanding they die, they also shall arise again, a bspiritual body.
They who are of a celestial aspirit shall receive the same bbody which was a natural body; even ye shall receive your bodies, and your cglory shall be that glory by which your bodies are dquickened.
Ye who are aquickened by a portion of the bcelestial glory shall then receive of the same, even a fulness.
And they who are quickened by a portion of the aterrestrial glory shall then receive of the same, even a fulness.
And also they who are quickened by a portion of the atelestial glory shall then receive of the same, even a fulness.
And they who remain shall also be aquickened; nevertheless, they shall return again to their own place, to enjoy that which they are bwilling to receive, because they were not willing to enjoy that which they might have received.
For what doth it profit a man if a gift is bestowed upon him, and he receive not the gift?
Behold, he rejoices not in that which is given unto him, neither rejoices in him who is the giver of the gift.
And again, verily I say unto you, that which is agoverned by law is also preserved by law and perfected and bsanctified by the same.
That which abreaketh a law, and babideth not by claw, but seeketh to become a law unto itself, and willeth to abide in sin, and altogether abideth in sin, cannot be sanctified by law, neither by mercy, djustice, nor ejudgment.
Therefore, they must remain ffilthy still.
All kingdoms have a law given; And there are many akingdoms; for there is no bspace in the which there is no ckingdom; and there is no kingdom in which there is no space, either a greater or a lesser kingdom.
And unto every kingdom is given a alaw; and unto every law there are certain bounds also and conditions.
All beings who abide not in those aconditions are not bjustified.
For aintelligence cleaveth unto intelligence; bwisdom receiveth wisdom; ctruth embraceth truth; dvirtue loveth virtue; elight cleaveth unto light; fmercy hath gcompassion on mercy and claimeth her own; hjustice continueth its course and claimeth its own; judgment goeth before the face of him who sitteth upon the throne and governeth and executeth all things.
He acomprehendeth all things, and all things are before him, and all things are round about him; and he is above all things, and in all things, and is through all things, and is round about all things; and all things are by him, and of him, even God, forever and ever.
And again, verily I say unto you, he hath given a alaw unto all things, by which they move in their btimes and their seasons; And their courses are fixed, even the courses of the heavens and the earth, which comprehend the earth and all the planets.
And they give alight to each other in their times and in their seasons, in their minutes, in their hours, in their days, in their weeks, in their months, in their years—all these are bone year with God, but not with man.
The earth arolls upon her wings, and the bsun giveth his light by day, and the moon giveth her light by night, and the stars also give their light, as they roll upon their wings in their glory, in the midst of the cpower of God.
Unto what shall I liken these kingdoms, that ye may understand?
Behold, all these are akingdoms, and any man who hath bseen any or the least of these hath cseen God dmoving in his majesty and power.
I say unto you, he hath seen him; nevertheless, he who came unto his aown was not comprehended.
The alight shineth in darkness, and the darkness comprehendeth it not; nevertheless, the day shall come when you shall bcomprehend even God, being quickened in him and by him.
Then shall ye know that ye have aseen me, that I am, and that I am the true blight that is in you, and that you are in me; otherwise ye could not abound.
Behold, I will liken these kingdoms unto a man having a field, and he sent forth his servants into the field to dig in the field.
And he said unto the first: Go ye and labor in the field, and in the first hour I will come unto you, and ye shall behold the joy of my countenance.
And he said unto the second: Go ye also into the field, and in the second hour I will visit you with the joy of my countenance.
And also unto the third, saying: I will visit you; And unto the fourth, and so on unto the twelfth.
And the lord of the field went unto the first in the first hour, and tarried with him all that hour, and he was made glad with the light of the countenance of his lord.
And then he withdrew from the first that he might visit the second also, and the third, and the fourth, and so on unto the twelfth.
And thus they all received the light of the countenance of their lord, every man in his hour, and in his time, and in his season— Beginning at the first, and so on unto the alast, and from the last unto the first, and from the first unto the last; Every man in his own aorder, until his hour was finished, even according as his lord had commanded him, that his lord might be glorified in him, and he in his lord, that they all might be glorified.
Therefore, unto this parable I will liken all these akingdoms, and the binhabitants thereof—every kingdom in its hour, and in its time, and in its season, even according to the decree which God hath made.
And again, verily I say unto you, my afriends, I leave these bsayings with you to cponder in your hearts, with this commandment which I give unto you, that ye shall dcall upon me while I am near— aDraw bnear unto me and I will draw near unto you; cseek me diligently and ye shall dfind me; ask, and ye shall receive; knock, and it shall be opened unto you.
Whatsoever ye aask the Father in my name it shall be given unto you, that is bexpedient for you; And if ye ask anything that is not aexpedient for you, it shall turn unto your bcondemnation.
Behold, that which you hear is as the avoice of one crying in the wilderness—in the wilderness, because you cannot see him—my voice, because my voice is bSpirit; my Spirit is truth; ctruth abideth and hath no end; and if it be in you it shall abound.
And if your eye be asingle to my bglory, your whole bodies shall be filled with light, and there shall be no darkness in you; and that body which is filled with light ccomprehendeth all things.
Therefore, asanctify yourselves that your bminds become csingle to God, and the days will come that you shall dsee him; for he will unveil his face unto you, and it shall be in his own time, and in his own way, and according to his own will.
Remember the great and last promise which I have made unto you; cast away your aidle thoughts and your bexcess of claughter far from you.
Tarry ye, tarry ye in this place, and call a asolemn assembly, even of those who are the first blaborers in this last kingdom.
And let those whom they have warned in their traveling call on the Lord, and aponder the bwarning in their hearts which they have received, for a little season.
Behold, and lo, I will take care of your aflocks, and will raise up elders and send unto them.
Behold, I will ahasten my work in its time.
And I give unto you, who are the first alaborers in this last kingdom, a commandment that you assemble yourselves together, and organize yourselves, and prepare yourselves, and bsanctify yourselves; yea, purify your hearts, and ccleanse your hands and your feet before me, that I may make you dclean; That I may testify unto your aFather, and your God, and my bGod, that you are clean from the cblood of this wicked generation; that I may fulfil this promise, this great and last dpromise, which I have made unto you, when I will.
Also, I give unto you a commandment that ye shall continue in aprayer and fasting from this time forth.
And I give unto you a commandment that you shall ateach one another the bdoctrine of the kingdom.
Teach ye diligently and my agrace shall attend you, that you may be binstructed more perfectly in theory, in principle, in doctrine, in the law of the gospel, in all things that pertain unto the kingdom of God, that are expedient for you to understand; Of things both in aheaven and in the earth, and under the earth; things which have been, things which are, things which must bshortly come to pass; things which are at home, things which are abroad; the wars and the perplexities of the cnations, and the judgments which are on the land; and a dknowledge also of countries and of kingdoms— That ye may be prepared in all things when I shall send you again to amagnify the calling whereunto I have called you, and the bmission with which I have commissioned you.
Behold, I sent you out to atestify and warn the people, and it becometh every man who hath been warned to bwarn his neighbor.
Therefore, they are left awithout excuse, and their sins are upon their bown heads.
He that aseeketh me bearly shall find me, and shall not be forsaken.
Therefore, tarry ye, and labor diligently, that you may be perfected in your ministry to go forth among the aGentiles for the last time, as many as the mouth of the Lord shall name, to bbind up the law and cseal up the testimony, and to prepare the saints for the hour of judgment which is to come; That their souls may escape the wrath of God, the adesolation of abomination which awaits the wicked, both in this world and in the world to come.
Verily, I say unto you, let those who are not the bfirst elders continue in the vineyard until the mouth of the Lord shall ccall them, for their time is not yet come; their garments are not dclean from the blood of this generation.
Abide ye in the aliberty wherewith ye are made bfree; centangle not yourselves in dsin, but let your hands be eclean, until the Lord comes.
For not many days hence and the aearth shall btremble and reel to and fro as a drunken man; and the csun shall dhide his face, and shall refuse to give light; and the moon shall be bathed in eblood; and the stars shall become exceedingly angry, and shall fcast themselves down as a fig that falleth from off a fig tree.
And after your atestimony cometh wrath and indignation upon the people.
For after your testimony cometh the testimony of aearthquakes, that shall cause groanings in the midst of her, and men shall fall upon the ground and shall not be able to stand.
And also cometh the testimony of the avoice of thunderings, and the voice of lightnings, and the voice of tempests, and the voice of the waves of the sea heaving themselves beyond their bounds.
And all things shall be in acommotion; and surely, men’s bhearts shall fail them; for fear shall come upon all people.
And aangels shall fly through the midst of heaven, crying with a loud voice, sounding the trump of God, saying: Prepare ye, prepare ye, O inhabitants of the earth; for the bjudgment of our God is come.
Behold, and lo, the cBridegroom cometh; go ye out to meet him.
And immediately there shall appear a agreat sign in heaven, and all people shall see it together.
And another angel shall sound his trump, saying: That agreat bchurch, the cmother of abominations, that made all nations drink of the wine of the wrath of her dfornication, that epersecuteth the saints of God, that shed their blood—she who sitteth upon many waters, and upon the islands of the sea—behold, she is the ftares of the earth; she is bound in bundles; her bands are made strong, no man can loose them; therefore, she is ready to be burned.
And he shall sound his trump both long and loud, and all nations shall hear it.
And there shall be asilence in bheaven for the space of half an hour; and immediately after shall the curtain of heaven be unfolded, as a cscroll is unfolded after it is rolled up, and the dface of the Lord shall be unveiled; And the saints that are upon the earth, who are alive, shall be quickened and be acaught up to meet him.
And they who have slept in their graves shall acome forth, for their graves shall be opened; and they also shall be caught up to meet him in the midst of the bpillar of heaven— They are Christ’s, the afirst fruits, they who shall descend with him first, and they who are on the earth and in their graves, who are first caught up to meet him; and all this by the voice of the sounding of the trump of the angel of God.
And after this another angel shall sound, which is the second trump; and then cometh the redemption of those who are Christ’s at his acoming; who have received their part in that bprison which is prepared for them, that they might receive the gospel, and be cjudged according to men in the flesh.
And again, another trump shall sound, which is the third trump; and then come the aspirits of men who are to be judged, and are found under bcondemnation; And these are the rest of the adead; and they live not again until the bthousand years are ended, neither again, until the end of the earth.
And another trump shall sound, which is the fourth trump, saying: There are found among those who are to remain until that great and last day, even the end, who shall aremain bfilthy still.
And another trump shall sound, which is the fifth trump, which is the fifth angel who committeth the aeverlasting gospel—flying through the midst of heaven, unto all nations, kindreds, tongues, and people; And this shall be the sound of his trump, saying to all people, both in heaven and in earth, and that are under the earth—for aevery ear shall hear it, and every knee shall bbow, and every tongue shall confess, while they hear the sound of the trump, saying: cFear God, and give glory to him who sitteth upon the throne, dforever and ever; for the hour of his judgment is come.
And again, another angel shall sound his trump, which is the sixth angel, saying: She is afallen who made all nations drink of the wine of the wrath of her fornication; she is fallen, is fallen!
And again, another angel shall sound his trump, which is the seventh angel, saying: It is finished; it is finished!
The aLamb of God hath bovercome and ctrodden the wine-press alone, even the wine-press of the fierceness of the wrath of Almighty God.
And then shall the angels be crowned with the glory of his might, and the asaints shall be filled with his bglory, and receive their cinheritance and be made dequal with him.
And then shall the first angel again sound his trump in the ears of all living, and areveal the secret acts of men, and the mighty works of God in the bfirst thousand years.
And then shall the second angel sound his trump, and reveal the secret acts of men, and the thoughts and intents of their hearts, and the mighty aworks of God in the second thousand years— And so on, until the seventh angel shall sound his trump; and he shall astand forth upon the land and upon the sea, and bswear in the name of him who sitteth upon the throne, that there shall be ctime no longer; and dSatan shall be bound, that old serpent, who is called the devil, and shall not be loosed for the space of a ethousand years.
And then he shall be aloosed for a little season, that he may gather together his armies.
And aMichael, the seventh angel, even the archangel, shall gather together his armies, even the hosts of heaven.
And the devil shall gather together his aarmies; even the hosts of hell, and shall come up to battle against Michael and his armies.
And then cometh the abattle of the great God; and the devil and his armies shall be bcast away into their own place, that they shall not have power over the saints any more at all.
For Michael shall fight their battles, and shall overcome him who aseeketh the throne of him who sitteth upon the throne, even the Lamb.
This is the glory of God, and the asanctified; and they shall not any more see bdeath.
Therefore, verily I say unto you, my afriends, call your solemn assembly, as I have bcommanded you.
And as all have not afaith, seek ye diligently and bteach one another words of cwisdom; yea, seek ye out of the best dbooks words of wisdom; seek learning, even by study and also by faith.
aOrganize yourselves; prepare every needful thing; and establish a bhouse, even a house of prayer, a house of fasting, a house of faith, a house of learning, a house of glory, a house of order, a house of God; That your aincomings may be in the name of the Lord; that your outgoings may be in the name of the Lord; that all your salutations may be in the name of the Lord, with buplifted hands unto the Most High.
Therefore, acease from all your light speeches, from all blaughter, from all your clustful desires, from all your dpride and light-mindedness, and from all your wicked doings.
Appoint among yourselves a teacher, and let anot all be spokesmen at once; but let one speak at a time and let all listen unto his sayings, that when all have spoken that all may be bedified of all, and that every man may have an equal privilege.
See that ye alove one another; cease to be bcovetous; learn to impart one to another as the gospel requires.
Cease to be aidle; cease to be bunclean; cease to cfind fault one with another; cease to dsleep longer than is needful; retire to thy bed early, that ye may not be weary; arise early, that your bodies and your minds may be einvigorated.
And above all things, clothe yourselves with the bond of acharity, as with a mantle, which is the bond of perfectness and bpeace.
aPray always, that ye may not faint, until I bcome.
Behold, and lo, I will come quickly, and receive you unto myself.
Amen.
And again, the order of the house prepared for the apresidency of the bschool of the cprophets, established for their instruction in all things that are expedient for them, even for all the dofficers of the church, or in other words, those who are called to the ministry in the church, beginning at the high priests, even down to the deacons— And this shall be the order of the house of the presidency of the school: He that is appointed to be president, or teacher, shall be found standing in his place, in the house which shall be prepared for him.
Therefore, he shall be first in the house of God, in a place that the congregation in the house may hear his words carefully and distinctly, not with loud speech.
And when he cometh into the house of God, for he should be first in the house—behold, this is abeautiful, that he may be an bexample— Let him offer himself in prayer upon his knees before God, in atoken or remembrance of the everlasting covenant.
And when any shall come in after him, let the teacher arise, and, with auplifted hands to heaven, yea, even directly, salute his brother or brethren with these words: Art thou a brother or brethren?
I salute you in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, in token or remembrance of the everlasting covenant, in which covenant I receive you to afellowship, in a determination that is fixed, immovable, and unchangeable, to be your bfriend and cbrother through the grace of God in the bonds of love, to walk in all the commandments of God blameless, in thanksgiving, forever and ever.
Amen.
And he that is found aunworthy of this salutation shall not have place among you; for ye shall not suffer that mine house shall be bpolluted by him.
And he that cometh in and is faithful before me, and is a brother, or if they be brethren, they shall salute the president or teacher with uplifted hands to heaven, with this same prayer and covenant, or by saying Amen, in token of the same.
Behold, verily, I say unto you, this is an ensample unto you for a salutation to one another in the house of God, in the school of the prophets.
And ye are called to do this by prayer and thanksgiving, as the Spirit shall give utterance in all your doings in the house of the Lord, in the school of the prophets, that it may become a sanctuary, a tabernacle of the Holy Spirit to your aedification.
And ye shall not receive any among you into this school save he is clean from the ablood of this generation; And he shall be received by the ordinance of the awashing of feet, for unto this end was the ordinance of the washing of feet instituted.
And again, the ordinance of washing feet is to be administered by the president, or presiding elder of the church.
It is to be commenced with prayer; and after partaking of abread and wine, he is to gird himself according to the bpattern given in the thirteenth chapter of John’s testimony concerning me.
Amen.
 A aWord of Wisdom, for the benefit of the council of high priests, assembled in Kirtland, and the church, and also the saints in Zion— To be sent greeting; not by commandment or constraint, but by revelation and the aword of wisdom, showing forth the order and bwill of God in the temporal salvation of all saints in the last days— Given for a principle with apromise, adapted to the capacity of the bweak and the weakest of all csaints, who are or can be called saints.
Behold, verily, thus saith the Lord unto you: In consequence of aevils and designs which do and will exist in the hearts of bconspiring men in the last days, I have cwarned you, and forewarn you, by giving unto you this word of wisdom by revelation— That inasmuch as any man adrinketh bwine or strong drink among you, behold it is not good, neither meet in the sight of your Father, only in assembling yourselves together to offer up your sacraments before him.
And, behold, this should be wine, yea, apure wine of the grape of the vine, of your own make.
And, again, astrong drinks are not for the belly, but for the washing of your bodies.
And again, tobacco is not for the abody, neither for the belly, and is not good for man, but is an herb for bruises and all sick cattle, to be used with judgment and skill.
And again, hot drinks are not for the body or belly.
And again, verily I say unto you, all wholesome aherbs God hath ordained for the constitution, nature, and use of man— Every herb in the season thereof, and every fruit in the season thereof; all these to be used with aprudence and bthanksgiving.
Yea, aflesh also of bbeasts and of the fowls of the air, I, the Lord, have ordained for the use of man with thanksgiving; nevertheless they are to be used csparingly; And it is pleasing unto me that they should not be aused, only in times of winter, or of cold, or bfamine.
All agrain is ordained for the use of man and of beasts, to be the staff of life, not only for man but for the beasts of the field, and the fowls of heaven, and all wild animals that run or creep on the earth; And athese hath God made for the use of man only in times of famine and excess of hunger.
All grain is good for the afood of man; as also the bfruit of the vine; that which yieldeth fruit, whether in the ground or above the ground— Nevertheless, wheat for man, and corn for the ox, and oats for the horse, and rye for the fowls and for swine, and for all beasts of the field, and barley for all useful animals, and for mild drinks, as also other grain.
And all saints who remember to keep and do these sayings, walking in obedience to the commandments, ashall receive bhealth in their navel and marrow to their bones; And shall afind bwisdom and great ctreasures of dknowledge, even hidden treasures; And shall arun and not be bweary, and shall walk and not faint.
And I, the Lord, give unto them a promise, that the adestroying angel shall bpass by them, as the children of Israel, and not slay them.
Amen.
 Behold, I say unto you, my son, that because you did not atranslate according to that which you desired of me, and did commence again to bwrite for my servant, Joseph Smith, Jun., even so I would that ye should continue until you have finished this record, which I have entrusted unto him.
And then, behold, aother brecords have I, that I will give unto you power that you may assist to ctranslate.
Be patient, my son, for it is awisdom in me, and it is not expedient that you should translate at this present time.
Behold, the work which you are called to do is to awrite for my servant Joseph.
And, behold, it is because that you did not continue as you commenced, when you began to translate, that I have taken away this privilege from you.
Do not amurmur, my son, for it is wisdom in me that I have dealt with you after this manner.
Behold, you have not understood; you have supposed that I would give it unto you, when you took no thought save it was to ask me.
But, behold, I say unto you, that you must astudy it out in your bmind; then you must cask me if it be right, and if it is right I will cause that your dbosom shall eburn within you; therefore, you shall ffeel that it is right.
But if it be not right you shall have no such feelings, but you shall have a astupor of thought that shall cause you to forget the thing which is wrong; therefore, you cannot write that which is bsacred save it be given you from me.
Now, if you had known this you could have atranslated; nevertheless, it is not expedient that you should translate now.
Behold, it was expedient when you commenced; but you afeared, and the time is past, and it is not expedient now; For, do you not behold that I have agiven unto my servant bJoseph sufficient strength, whereby it is made up?
And neither of you have I condemned.
Do this thing which I have commanded you, and you shall aprosper.
Be faithful, and yield to no btemptation.
Stand fast in the awork wherewith I have bcalled you, and a hair of your head shall not be lost, and you shall be clifted up at the last day.
Amen.
 Thus saith the Lord, verily, verily I say unto you my son, thy sins are aforgiven thee, according to thy petition, for thy prayers and the prayers of thy brethren have come up into my ears.
Therefore, thou art blessed from henceforth that bear the akeys of the kingdom given unto you; which bkingdom is coming forth for the last time.
Verily I say unto you, the keys of this akingdom shall bnever be taken from you, while thou art in the world, neither in the world to come; Nevertheless, through you shall the aoracles be given to another, yea, even unto the church.
And all they who receive the aoracles of God, let them beware how they hold them lest they are accounted as a light thing, and are brought under condemnation thereby, and stumble and fall when the storms descend, and the winds blow, and the brains descend, and beat upon their house.
And again, verily I say unto thy brethren, Sidney Rigdon and aFrederick G. Williams, their sins are forgiven them also, and they are accounted as bequal with thee in holding the keys of this last kingdom; As also through your administration the keys of the aschool of the prophets, which I have commanded to be organized; That thereby they may be aperfected in their ministry for the salvation of Zion, and of the nations of Israel, and of the Gentiles, as many as will believe; That through your administration they may receive the word, and through their administration the word may go forth unto the ends of the earth, unto the aGentiles bfirst, and then, behold, and lo, they shall turn unto the Jews.
And then cometh the day when the arm of the Lord shall be arevealed in power in convincing the nations, the bheathen nations, the house of cJoseph, of the gospel of their salvation.
For it shall come to pass in that day, that every man shall ahear the fulness of the gospel in his own tongue, and in his own blanguage, through those who are cordained unto this dpower, by the administration of the eComforter, shed forth upon them for the frevelation of Jesus Christ.
And now, verily I say unto you, I give unto you a commandment that you continue in the aministry and presidency.
And when you have finished the atranslation of the prophets, you shall from thenceforth bpreside over the affairs of the church and the school; And from time to time, as shall be manifested by the Comforter, receive arevelations to unfold the bmysteries of the kingdom; And set in order the churches, and astudy and blearn, and become acquainted with all good books, and with clanguages, tongues, and people.
And this shall be your business and mission in all your lives, to preside in council, and set in aorder all the affairs of this church and kingdom.
Be not aashamed, neither confounded; but be admonished in all your high-mindedness and bpride, for it bringeth a snare upon your souls.
Set in aorder your houses; keep bslothfulness and cuncleanness far from you.
Now, verily I say unto you, let there be a aplace provided, as soon as it is possible, for the family of thy counselor and scribe, even Frederick G. Williams.
And let mine aged servant, aJoseph Smith, Sen., continue with his family upon the place where he now lives; and let it not be sold until the mouth of the Lord shall name.
And let my counselor, even aSidney Rigdon, remain where he now resides until the mouth of the Lord shall name.
And let the bishop search diligently to obtain an aagent, and let him be a man who has got briches in store—a man of God, and of strong faith— That thereby he may be enabled to discharge every debt; that the storehouse of the Lord may not be brought into disrepute before the eyes of the people.
Search adiligently, bpray always, and be believing, and call things shall work together for your good, if ye walk uprightly and remember the dcovenant wherewith ye have covenanted one with another.
Let your families be asmall, especially mine aged servant Joseph Smith’s, Sen., as pertaining to those who do not belong to your families; That those things that are provided for you, to bring to pass my work, be not taken from you and given to those that are not worthy— And thereby you be hindered in accomplishing those things which I have commanded you.
And again, verily I say unto you, it is my will that my handmaid Vienna Jaques should receive amoney to bear her expenses, and go up unto the land of Zion; And the residue of the money may be consecrated unto me, and she be rewarded in mine own due time.
Verily I say unto you, that it is meet in mine eyes that she should go up unto the land of Zion, and receive an ainheritance from the hand of the bishop; That she may settle down in peace inasmuch as she is faithful, and not be idle in her days from thenceforth.
And behold, verily I say unto you, that ye shall awrite this commandment, and say unto your brethren in Zion, in love greeting, that I have called you also to bpreside over Zion in mine own due time.
Therefore, let them cease wearying me concerning this matter.
Behold, I say unto you that your brethren in Zion begin to repent, and the angels rejoice over them.
Nevertheless, I am not well pleased with many things; and I am not well pleased with my servant aWilliam E. McLellin, neither with my servant Sidney Gilbert; and the bishop also, and others have many things to repent of.
But verily I say unto you, that I, the Lord, will contend with aZion, and plead with her strong ones, and bchasten her until she overcomes and is cclean before me.
For she shall not be removed out of her place.
I, the Lord, have spoken it.
Amen.
 Verily, thus saith the Lord unto you concerning the aApocrypha—There are many things contained therein that are true, and it is mostly translated correctly; There are many things contained therein that are not true, which are ainterpolations by the hands of men.
Verily, I say unto you, that it is not needful that the Apocrypha should be atranslated.
Therefore, whoso readeth it, let him aunderstand, for the Spirit manifesteth truth; And whoso is enlightened by the aSpirit shall obtain benefit therefrom; And whoso receiveth not by the Spirit, cannot be benefited.
Therefore it is not needful that it should be translated.
Amen.
 Verily, thus saith the Lord, I give unto the aunited order, organized agreeable to the commandment previously given, a revelation and commandment concerning my servant bFrederick G. Williams, that ye shall receive him into the order.
What I say unto one I say unto all.
And again, I say unto you my servant Frederick G. Williams, you shall be a lively member in this order; and inasmuch as you are faithful in keeping all former commandments you shall be blessed forever.
Amen.
 And again, verily I say unto you, my afriends, a commandment I give unto you, that ye shall commence a work of laying out and preparing a beginning and foundation of the city of the bstake of Zion, here in the land of Kirtland, beginning at my house.
And behold, it must be done according to the apattern which I have given unto you.
And let the first lot on the south be consecrated unto me for the building of a house for the presidency, for the work of the presidency, in obtaining revelations; and for the work of the ministry of the apresidency, in all things pertaining to the church and kingdom.
Verily I say unto you, that it shall be built fifty-five by sixty-five feet in the width thereof and in the length thereof, in the inner court.
And there shall be a lower court and a higher court, according to the pattern which shall be given unto you hereafter.
And it shall be adedicated unto the Lord from the foundation thereof, according to the border of the priesthood, according to the pattern which shall be given unto you hereafter.
And it shall be wholly dedicated unto the Lord for the work of the apresidency.
And ye shall not suffer any aunclean thing to come in unto it; and my bglory shall be there, and my cpresence shall be there.
But if there shall come into it any aunclean thing, my glory shall not be there; and my presence shall not come into it.
And again, verily I say unto you, the second lot on the south shall be dedicated unto me for the building of a house unto me, for the work of the aprinting of the btranslation of my scriptures, and all things whatsoever I shall command you.
And it shall be fifty-five by sixty-five feet in the width thereof and the length thereof, in the inner court; and there shall be a lower and a higher court.
And this house shall be wholly dedicated unto the Lord from the foundation thereof, for the work of the printing, in all things whatsoever I shall command you, to be holy, undefiled, according to the pattern in all things as it shall be given unto you.
And on the third lot shall my servant Hyrum Smith receive his ainheritance.
And on the first and second lots on the north shall my servants Reynolds Cahoon and Jared Carter receive their inheritances— That they may do the work which I have appointed unto them, to be a committee to build mine houses, according to the commandment, which I, the Lord God, have given unto you.
These two houses are not to be built until I give unto you a commandment concerning them.
And now I give unto you no more at this time.
Amen.
 Verily, thus saith the Lord unto you whom I love, and whom I alove I also chasten that their sins may be bforgiven, for with the cchastisement I prepare a way for their ddeliverance in all things out of etemptation, and I have loved you— Wherefore, ye must needs be chastened and stand rebuked before my face; For ye have sinned against me a very grievous sin, in that ye have not considered the great commandment in all things, that I have given unto you concerning the building of mine ahouse; For the preparation wherewith I design to prepare mine apostles to aprune my vineyard for the last time, that I may bring to pass my bstrange act, that I may cpour out my Spirit upon all flesh— But behold, verily I say unto you, that there are many who have been ordained among you, whom I have called but few of them are achosen.
They who are not chosen have sinned a very grievous sin, in that they are awalking in bdarkness at noon-day.
And for this cause I gave unto you a commandment that you should call your asolemn assembly, that your bfastings and your cmourning might come up into the ears of the Lord of dSabaoth, which is by interpretation, the ecreator of the first day, the beginning and the end.
Yea, verily I say unto you, I gave unto you a commandment that you should abuild a house, in the which house I design to bendow those whom I have cchosen with power from on high; For this is the apromise of the Father unto you; therefore I command you to tarry, even as mine apostles at Jerusalem.
Nevertheless, my servants sinned a very grievous sin; and acontentions arose in the bschool of the prophets; which was very grievous unto me, saith your Lord; therefore I sent them forth to be chastened.
Verily I say unto you, it is my will that you should build a house.
aIf you keep my commandments you shall have power to build it.
If you akeep not my commandments, the blove of the Father shall not continue with you, therefore you shall cwalk in darkness.
Now here is wisdom, and the amind of the Lord—let the house be built, not after the manner of the world, for I give not unto you that ye shall live after the manner of the world; Therefore, let it be built after the amanner which I shall show unto three of you, whom ye shall appoint and ordain unto this power.
And the size thereof shall be fifty and five feet in width, and let it be sixty-five feet in length, in the inner court thereof.
And let the lower part of the inner court be dedicated unto me for your sacrament offering, and for your preaching, and your fasting, and your praying, and the aoffering up of your most holy desires unto me, saith your Lord.
And let the higher part of the inner court be dedicated unto me for the aschool of mine apostles, saith Son bAhman; or, in other words, Alphus; or, in other words, Omegus; even Jesus Christ your cLord.
Amen.
 Behold, I say unto you, here is wisdom, whereby ye may know how to act concerning this matter, for it is expedient in me that this astake that I have set for the strength of Zion should be made strong.
Therefore, let my servant aNewel K. Whitney take charge of the place which is named among you, upon which I design to build mine bholy house.
And again, let it be divided into lots, according to wisdom, for the benefit of those who seek ainheritances, as it shall be determined in council among you.
Therefore, take heed that ye see to this matter, and that portion that is necessary to benefit mine aorder, for the purpose of bringing forth my word to the children of men.
For behold, verily I say unto you, this is the most expedient in me, that my word should go forth unto the children of men, for the purpose of subduing the hearts of the children of men for your good.
Even so.
Amen.
And again, verily I say unto you, it is wisdom and expedient in me, that my servant aJohn Johnson whose offering I have accepted, and whose prayers I have heard, unto whom I give a promise of eternal life inasmuch as he keepeth my commandments from henceforth— For he is a descendant of aJoseph and a partaker of the blessings of the promise made unto his fathers— Verily I say unto you, it is expedient in me that he should become a member of the aorder, that he may assist in bringing forth my word unto the children of men.
Therefore ye shall ordain him unto this blessing, and he shall seek diligently to take away aincumbrances that are upon the house named among you, that he may dwell therein.
Even so.
Amen.
 Verily I say unto you my friends, I speak unto you with my avoice, even the voice of my Spirit, that I may show unto you my will concerning your brethren in the land of bZion, many of whom are truly humble and are seeking diligently to learn wisdom and to find truth.
Verily, verily I say unto you, blessed are such, for they shall obtain; for I, the Lord, show mercy unto all the ameek, and upon all whomsoever I will, that I may be bjustified when I shall bring them unto judgment.
Behold, I say unto you, concerning the school in Zion, I, the Lord, am well pleased that there should be a aschool in Zion, and also with my servant bParley P. Pratt, for he abideth in me.
And inasmuch as he continueth to abide in me he shall continue to preside over the school in the land of Zion until I shall give unto him other commandments.
And I will bless him with a multiplicity of blessings, in expounding all scriptures and mysteries to the edification of the aschool, and of the church in Zion.
And to the residue of the school, I, the Lord, am willing to show mercy; nevertheless, there are those that must needs be achastened, and their works shall be made known.
The aax is laid at the root of the trees; and every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit shall be hewn down and cast into the fire.
I, the Lord, have spoken it.
Verily I say unto you, all among them who know their hearts are ahonest, and are broken, and their spirits contrite, and are bwilling to observe their covenants by csacrifice—yea, every sacrifice which I, the Lord, shall command—they are daccepted of me.
For I, the Lord, will cause them to bring forth as a very fruitful atree which is planted in a goodly land, by a pure stream, that yieldeth much precious fruit.
Verily I say unto you, that it is my will that a ahouse should be built unto me in the land of Zion, like unto the bpattern which I have given you.
Yea, let it be built speedily, by the tithing of my people.
Behold, this is the atithing and the bsacrifice which I, the Lord, require at their hands, that there may be a chouse built unto me for the salvation of Zion— For a place of athanksgiving for all saints, and for a place of instruction for all those who are called to the work of the ministry in all their several callings and offices; That they may be perfected in the aunderstanding of their ministry, in theory, in principle, and in doctrine, in all things pertaining to the bkingdom of God on the earth, the ckeys of which kingdom have been dconferred upon you.
And inasmuch as my people abuild a bhouse unto me in the cname of the Lord, and do not suffer any dunclean thing to come into it, that it be not defiled, my eglory shall rest upon it; Yea, and my apresence shall be there, for I will come into it, and all the bpure in heart that shall come into it shall see God.
But if it be defiled I will not come into it, and my glory shall not be there; for I will not come into aunholy temples.
And, now, behold, if Zion do these things she shall aprosper, and spread herself and become very glorious, very great, and very terrible.
And the anations of the earth shall honor her, and shall say: Surely bZion is the city of our God, and surely Zion cannot fall, neither be moved out of her place, for God is there, and the hand of the Lord is there; And he hath sworn by the power of his might to be her salvation and her high atower.
Therefore, verily, thus saith the Lord, let Zion rejoice, for this is aZion—the pure in heart; therefore, let Zion rejoice, while all the wicked shall mourn.
For behold, and lo, avengeance cometh speedily upon the ungodly as the whirlwind; and who shall escape it?
The Lord’s ascourge shall pass over by night and by day, and the report thereof shall vex all people; yea, it shall not be stayed until the Lord come; For the aindignation of the Lord is kindled against their abominations and all their wicked works.
Nevertheless, Zion shall aescape if she observe to do all things whatsoever I have commanded her.
But if she aobserve not to do whatsoever I have commanded her, I will bvisit her caccording to all her works, with sore affliction, with dpestilence, with eplague, with sword, with fvengeance, with gdevouring fire.
Nevertheless, let it be read this once to her ears, that I, the Lord, have accepted of her offering; and if she sin no more anone of these things shall come upon her; And I will bless her with ablessings, and multiply a multiplicity of blessings upon her, and upon her generations forever and ever, saith the Lord your God.
Amen.
 Behold, thus saith the Lord unto my servant John Murdock—thou art acalled to go into the eastern countries from house to house, from village to village, and from city to city, to proclaim mine everlasting gospel unto the inhabitants thereof, in the midst of bpersecution and wickedness.
And who areceiveth you receiveth me; and you shall have power to declare my word in the bdemonstration of my Holy Spirit.
And who receiveth you aas a little child, receiveth my bkingdom; and blessed are they, for they shall obtain cmercy.
And whoso rejecteth you shall be arejected of my Father and his house; and you shall cleanse your bfeet in the secret places by the way for a testimony against them.
And behold, and lo, I acome quickly to bjudgment, to convince all of their ungodly deeds which they have committed against me, as it is written of me in the volume of the book.
And now, verily I say unto you, that it is not expedient that you should go until your children are aprovided for, and sent up kindly unto the bishop of Zion.
And after a few years, if thou desirest of me, thou mayest go up also unto the goodly land, to possess thine ainheritance; Otherwise thou shalt continue proclaiming my gospel auntil thou be taken.
Amen.
To Whom It May Concern:On September , , at the th Semiannual General Conference of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the following was presented by President N. Eldon Tanner, First Counselor in the First Presidency of the Church:In early June of this year, the First Presidency announced that a revelation had been received by President Spencer W. Kimball extending priesthood and temple blessings to all worthy male members of the Church.
President Kimball has asked that I advise the conference that after he had received this revelation, which came to him after extended meditation and prayer in the sacred rooms of the holy temple, he presented it to his counselors, who accepted it and approved it.
It was then presented to the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, who unanimously approved it, and was subsequently presented to all other General Authorities, who likewise approved it unanimously.President Kimball has asked that I now read this letter:June , To all general and local priesthood officers of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints throughout the world:Dear Brethren:As we have witnessed the expansion of the work of the Lord over the earth, we have been grateful that people of many nations have responded to the message of the restored gospel, and have joined the Church in ever-increasing numbers.
This, in turn, has inspired us with a desire to extend to every worthy member of the Church all of the privileges and blessings which the gospel affords.Aware of the promises made by the prophets and presidents of the Church who have preceded us that at some time, in God’s eternal plan, all of our brethren who are worthy may receive the priesthood, and witnessing the faithfulness of those from whom the priesthood has been withheld, we have pleaded long and earnestly in behalf of these, our faithful brethren, spending many hours in the Upper Room of the Temple supplicating the Lord for divine guidance.He has heard our prayers, and by revelation has confirmed that the long-promised day has come when every faithful, worthy man in the Church may receive the holy priesthood, with power to exercise its divine authority, and enjoy with his loved ones every blessing that flows therefrom, including the blessings of the temple.
Accordingly, all worthy male members of the Church may be ordained to the priesthood without regard for race or color.
Priesthood leaders are instructed to follow the policy of carefully interviewing all candidates for ordination to either the Aaronic or the Melchizedek Priesthood to insure that they meet the established standards for worthiness.We declare with soberness that the Lord has now made known his will for the blessing of all his children throughout the earth who will hearken to the voice of his authorized servants, and prepare themselves to receive every blessing of the gospel.Sincerely yours,Spencer W. KimballN.
Eldon TannerMarion G. RomneyThe First PresidencyRecognizing Spencer W. Kimball as the prophet, seer, and revelator, and president of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, it is proposed that we as a constituent assembly accept this revelation as the word and will of the Lord.
All in favor please signify by raising your right hand.
Any opposed by the same sign.The vote to sustain the foregoing motion was unanimous in the affirmative.Salt Lake City, Utah, September , .
 We abelieve in bGod, the Eternal Father, and in His cSon, Jesus Christ, and in the dHoly Ghost.
We believe that men will be apunished for their bown sins, and not for cAdam’s transgression.
We believe that through the aAtonement of Christ, all bmankind may be csaved, by obedience to the laws and ordinances of the Gospel.
We believe that the first principles and aordinances of the Gospel are: first, bFaith in the Lord Jesus Christ; second, cRepentance; third, dBaptism by eimmersion for the fremission of sins; fourth, Laying on of ghands for the hgift of the Holy Ghost.
We believe that a man must be acalled of God, by bprophecy, and by the laying on of chands by those who are in dauthority, to epreach the Gospel and administer in the fordinances thereof.
We believe in the same aorganization that existed in the Primitive Church, namely, apostles, bprophets, cpastors, dteachers, eevangelists, and so forth.
We believe in the agift of btongues, cprophecy, drevelation, evisions, fhealing, ginterpretation of tongues, and so forth.
We believe the aBible to be the bword of God as far as it is translated ccorrectly; we also believe the dBook of Mormon to be the word of God.
We believe all that God has arevealed, all that He does now reveal, and we believe that He will yet breveal many great and important things pertaining to the Kingdom of God.
We believe in the literal agathering of Israel and in the restoration of the bTen Tribes; that cZion (the New Jerusalem) will be built upon the American continent; that Christ will dreign personally upon the earth; and, that the earth will be erenewed and receive its fparadisiacal gglory.
We claim the aprivilege of worshiping Almighty God according to the bdictates of our own cconscience, and allow all men the same privilege, let them dworship how, where, or what they may.
We believe in being asubject to bkings, presidents, rulers, and magistrates, in cobeying, honoring, and sustaining the dlaw.
aWe believe in being bhonest, true, cchaste, dbenevolent, virtuous, and in doing egood to all men; indeed, we may say that we follow the admonition of Paul—We believe all things, we fhope all things, we have endured many things, and hope to be able to gendure all things.
If there is anything hvirtuous, ilovely, or of good report or praiseworthy, we seek after these things.Joseph Smith.
 Now the Lord God caused the afamine to wax sore in the land of Ur, insomuch that bHaran, my brother, died; but cTerah, my father, yet lived in the land of Ur, of the Chaldees.
And it came to pass that I, Abraham, took aSarai to wife, and bNahor, my brother, took Milcah to wife, who was the cdaughter of Haran.
Now the Lord had asaid unto me: Abraham, get thee out of thy country, and from thy kindred, and from thy father’s house, unto a land that I will show thee.
Therefore I left the land of aUr, of the Chaldees, to go into the land of Canaan; and I took Lot, my brother’s son, and his wife, and Sarai my wife; and also my bfather followed after me, unto the land which we denominated Haran.
And the famine abated; and my father tarried in Haran and dwelt there, as there were many flocks in Haran; and my father turned again unto his aidolatry, therefore he continued in Haran.
But I, Abraham, and Lot, my brother’s son, prayed unto the Lord, and the Lord aappeared unto me, and said unto me: Arise, and take Lot with thee; for I have purposed to take thee away out of Haran, and to make of thee a bminister to bear my cname in a strange dland which I will give unto thy seed after thee for an everlasting possession, when they hearken to my voice.
For I am the Lord thy God; I dwell in aheaven; the earth is my bfootstool; I stretch my hand over the sea, and it obeys my voice; I cause the wind and the fire to be my cchariot; I say to the mountains—Depart hence—and behold, they are taken away by a whirlwind, in an instant, suddenly.
My aname is Jehovah, and I bknow the end from the beginning; therefore my hand shall be over thee.
And I will make of thee a great anation, and I will bbless thee above measure, and make thy name great among all nations, and thou shalt be a blessing unto thy seed after thee, that in their hands they shall bear this ministry and cPriesthood unto all nations; And I will abless them through thy name; for as many as receive this bGospel shall be called after thy cname, and shall be accounted thy dseed, and shall rise up and bless thee, as their efather; And I will abless them that bless thee, and bcurse them that curse thee; and in thee (that is, in thy Priesthood) and in thy cseed (that is, thy Priesthood), for I give unto thee a promise that this dright shall continue in thee, and in thy seed after thee (that is to say, the literal seed, or the seed of the body) shall all the families of the earth be blessed, even with the blessings of the Gospel, which are the blessings of salvation, even of life eternal.
Now, after the Lord had withdrawn from speaking to me, and withdrawn his face from me, I said in my heart: Thy servant has asought thee earnestly; now I have found thee; Thou didst send thine angel to adeliver me from the gods of Elkenah, and I will do well to hearken unto thy voice, therefore let thy servant rise up and depart in peace.
So I, Abraham, departed as the Lord had said unto me, and Lot with me; and I, Abraham, was asixty and two years old when I departed out of Haran.
And I took Sarai, whom I took to wife when I was in Ur, in Chaldea, and Lot, my brother’s son, and all our substance that we had gathered, and the souls that we had awon in Haran, and came forth in the way to the land of Canaan, and dwelt in tents as we came on our way; Therefore, aeternity was our covering and our brock and our salvation, as we journeyed from Haran by the way of cJershon, to come to the land of Canaan.
Now I, Abraham, built an aaltar in the land of Jershon, and made an offering unto the Lord, and prayed that the bfamine might be turned away from my father’s house, that they might not perish.
And then we passed from Jershon through the land unto the place of Sechem; it was situated in the plains of Moreh, and we had already come into the borders of the land of the aCanaanites, and I offered bsacrifice there in the plains of Moreh, and called on the Lord devoutly, because we had already come into the land of this idolatrous nation.
And the Lord aappeared unto me in answer to my prayers, and said unto me: Unto thy seed will I give this bland.
And I, Abraham, arose from the place of the altar which I had built unto the Lord, and removed from thence unto a mountain on the east of aBethel, and pitched my tent there, Bethel on the west, and bHai on the east; and there I built another caltar unto the Lord, and dcalled again upon the name of the Lord.
And I, Abraham, journeyed, going on still towards the south; and there was a continuation of a famine in the land; and I, Abraham, concluded to go down into Egypt, to sojourn there, for the famine became very grievous.
And it came to pass when I was come near to enter into Egypt, the Lord asaid unto me: Behold, Sarai, thy wife, is a very fair woman to look upon; Therefore it shall come to pass, when the Egyptians shall see her, they will say—She is his wife; and they will kill you, but they will save her alive; therefore see that ye do on this wise: Let her say unto the Egyptians, she is thy sister, and thy soul shall live.
And it came to pass that I, Abraham, told Sarai, my wife, all that the Lord had said unto me—Therefore say unto them, I pray thee, thou art my asister, that it may be well with me for thy sake, and my soul shall live because of thee.
 And I, Abraham, had the aUrim and Thummim, which the Lord my God had given unto me, in Ur of the Chaldees; And I saw the astars, that they were very great, and that one of them was nearest unto the throne of God; and there were many great ones which were near unto it; And the Lord said unto me: These are the governing ones; and the name of the great one is aKolob, because it is near unto me, for I am the Lord thy God: I have set this one to govern all those which belong to the same order as that upon which thou standest.
And the Lord said unto me, by the Urim and Thummim, that Kolob was after the manner of the Lord, according to its atimes and seasons in the revolutions thereof; that one revolution was a bday unto the Lord, after his manner of reckoning, it being one thousand cyears according to the time appointed unto that whereon thou standest.
This is the reckoning of the Lord’s dtime, according to the reckoning of Kolob.
And the Lord said unto me: The planet which is the lesser light, lesser than that which is to rule the day, even the night, is above or agreater than that upon which thou standest in point of reckoning, for it moveth in order more slow; this is in order because it standeth above the earth upon which thou standest, therefore the reckoning of its time is not so many as to its number of days, and of months, and of years.
And the Lord said unto me: Now, Abraham, these atwo facts exist, behold thine eyes see it; it is given unto thee to know the times of reckoning, and the set time, yea, the set time of the earth upon which thou standest, and the set time of the greater light which is set to rule the day, and the set time of the lesser light which is set to rule the night.
Now the set time of the lesser light is a longer time as to its reckoning than the reckoning of the time of the earth upon which thou standest.
And where these two facts exist, there shall be another fact above them, that is, there shall be another planet whose reckoning of time shall be longer still; And thus there shall be the reckoning of the time of one aplanet above another, until thou come nigh unto Kolob, which Kolob is after the reckoning of the Lord’s time; which Kolob is set nigh unto the throne of God, to govern all those planets which belong to the same border as that upon which thou standest.
And it is given unto thee to know the set time of all the stars that are set to give light, until thou come near unto the throne of God.
Thus I, Abraham, atalked with the Lord, face to face, as one man talketh with another; and he told me of the works which his hands had made; And he said unto me: My son, my son (and his hand was stretched out), behold I will show you all these.
And he put his hand upon mine eyes, and I saw those things which his hands had made, which were many; and they multiplied before mine eyes, and I could not see the end thereof.
And he said unto me: This is Shinehah, which is the sun.
And he said unto me: Kokob, which is star.
And he said unto me: Olea, which is the moon.
And he said unto me: Kokaubeam, which signifies stars, or all the great lights, which were in the firmament of heaven.
And it was in the night time when the Lord spake these words unto me: I will amultiply thee, and thy bseed after thee, like unto these; and if thou canst count the cnumber of sands, so shall be the number of thy seeds.
And the Lord said unto me: Abraham, I ashow these things unto thee before ye go into Egypt, that ye may declare all these words.
If atwo things exist, and there be one above the other, there shall be greater things above them; therefore bKolob is the greatest of all the Kokaubeam that thou hast seen, because it is nearest unto me.
Now, if there be two things, one above the other, and the moon be above the earth, then it may be that a planet or a star may exist above it; and there is nothing that the Lord thy God shall take in his heart to do but what he will ado it.
Howbeit that he made the greater star; as, also, if there be two aspirits, and one shall be more intelligent than the other, yet these two spirits, notwithstanding one is more intelligent than the other, have no beginning; they existed before, they shall have no end, they shall exist after, for they are bgnolaum, or eternal.
And the Lord said unto me: These two facts do exist, that there are two spirits, one being more intelligent than the other; there shall be another more intelligent than they; I am the Lord thy God, I am amore intelligent than they all.
The Lord thy God sent his angel to adeliver thee from the hands of the priest of Elkenah.
I dwell in the midst of them all; I now, therefore, have come down unto thee to declare unto thee the aworks which my hands have made, wherein my bwisdom excelleth them all, for I crule in the heavens above, and in the earth beneath, in all wisdom and prudence, over all the intelligences thine eyes have seen from the beginning; I came down in the beginning in the midst of all the intelligences thou hast seen.
Now the Lord had shown unto me, Abraham, the aintelligences that were organized before the world was; and among all these there were many of the bnoble and great ones; And God saw these souls that they were good, and he stood in the midst of them, and he said: These I will make my rulers; for he stood among those that were spirits, and he saw that they were good; and he said unto me: Abraham, thou art one of them; thou wast achosen before thou wast born.
And there stood aone among them that was like unto God, and he said unto those who were with him: We will go down, for there is space there, and we will take of these materials, and bwe will make an earth whereon these may cdwell; And we will aprove them herewith, to see if they will bdo all things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them; And they who akeep their first bestate shall be added upon; and they who keep not their first estate shall not have glory in the same kingdom with those who keep their first estate; and they who keep their second cestate shall have dglory added upon their heads for ever and ever.
And the aLord said: Whom shall I bsend?
And one answered like unto the Son of Man: Here am I, send me.
And canother answered and said: Here am I, send me.
And the Lord said: I will dsend the first.
And the asecond was angry, and kept not his first bestate; and, at that day, many followed after him.
 And then the Lord said: Let us go down.
And they went down at the beginning, and they, that is the aGods, borganized and formed the cheavens and the earth.
And the earth, after it was formed, was empty and desolate, because they had not formed anything but the earth; and adarkness reigned upon the face of the deep, and the Spirit of the Gods bwas brooding upon the face of the waters.
And they (the Gods) said: Let there be light; and there was light.
And they (the Gods) comprehended the light, for it was abright; and they divided the light, or caused it to be divided, from the darkness.
And the Gods called the light Day, and the darkness they called Night.
And it came to pass that from the evening until morning they called anight; and from the morning until the evening they called day; and this was the first, or the beginning, of that which they called day and night.
And the Gods also said: Let there be an aexpanse in the midst of the waters, and it shall divide the waters from the waters.
And the Gods ordered the expanse, so that it divided the waters which were under the expanse from the waters which were above the expanse; and it was so, even as they ordered.
And the Gods called the expanse, Heaven.
And it came to pass that it was from evening until morning that they called night; and it came to pass that it was from morning until evening that they called day; and this was the second atime that they called night and day.
And the Gods ordered, saying: Let the awaters under the heaven be gathered together unto bone place, and let the earth come up dry; and it was so as they ordered; And the Gods pronounced the dry land, Earth; and the gathering together of the waters, pronounced they, aGreat Waters; and the Gods saw that they were obeyed.
And the Gods said: Let us prepare the earth to bring forth agrass; the herb yielding seed; the fruit tree yielding fruit, after his kind, whose seed in itself yieldeth its own likeness upon the earth; and it was so, even as they ordered.
And the Gods organized the aearth to bring forth grass from its own seed, and the herb to bring forth herb from its own seed, yielding seed after his kind; and the earth to bring forth the tree from its own seed, yielding fruit, whose seed could only bring forth the same in itself, after his kind; and the Gods saw that they were obeyed.
And it came to pass that they numbered the days; from the evening until the morning they called night; and it came to pass, from the morning until the evening they called day; and it was the third time.
And the Gods organized the alights in the expanse of the heaven, and caused them to divide the day from the night; and organized them to be for signs and for seasons, and for days and for years; And organized them to be for lights in the expanse of the heaven to give light upon the earth; and it was so.
And the Gods organized the two great lights, the agreater light to rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the night; with the lesser light they set the stars also; And the Gods set them in the expanse of the heavens, to give light upon the earth, and to rule over the day and over the night, and to cause to divide the light from the adarkness.
And the Gods watched those things which they had aordered until they obeyed.
And it came to pass that it was from evening until morning that it was night; and it came to pass that it was from morning until evening that it was day; and it was the fourth time.
And the Gods said: Let us prepare the waters to bring forth abundantly the moving creatures that have life; and the fowl, that they may fly above the earth in the open expanse of heaven.
And the Gods prepared the waters that they might bring forth great awhales, and every living creature that moveth, which the waters were to bring forth abundantly after their kind; and every winged fowl after their kind.
And the Gods saw that they would be obeyed, and that their plan was good.
And the Gods said: We will bless them, and cause them to be fruitful and multiply, and fill the waters in the seas or agreat waters; and cause the fowl to multiply in the earth.
And it came to pass that it was from evening until morning that they called night; and it came to pass that it was from morning until evening that they called day; and it was the fifth time.
And the Gods prepared the earth to bring forth the living creature after his kind, cattle and creeping things, and beasts of the earth after their kind; and it was so, as they had said.
And the Gods organized the earth to bring forth the beasts after their kind, and cattle after their kind, and every thing that creepeth upon the earth after its kind; and the Gods saw they would obey.
And the Gods took acounsel among themselves and said: Let us go down and bform man in our cimage, after our likeness; and we will give them dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth.
So the aGods went down to organize man in their own bimage, in the image of the Gods to form they him, male and female to form they them.
And the Gods said: We will bless them.
And the Gods said: We will cause them to be fruitful and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it, and to have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over every living thing that moveth upon the earth.
And the Gods said: Behold, we will give them every herb bearing seed that shall come upon the face of all the earth, and every tree which shall have fruit upon it; yea, the fruit of the tree yielding seed to them we will give it; it shall be for their ameat.
And to every beast of the earth, and to every fowl of the air, and to every thing that creepeth upon the earth, behold, we will give them life, and also we will give to them every green herb for meat, and all these things shall be thus organized.
And the Gods said: We will do everything that we have said, and organize them; and behold, they shall be very obedient.
And it came to pass that it was from evening until morning they called night; and it came to pass that it was from morning until evening that they called day; and they numbered the asixth time.
 And thus we will finish the heavens and the earth, and all the ahosts of them.
And the Gods said among themselves: On the seventh time we will end our work, which we have counseled; and we will arest on the bseventh time from all our work which we have counseled.
And the Gods concluded upon the seventh time, because that on the seventh time they would arest from all their bworks which they (the Gods) counseled among themselves to form; and csanctified it.
And thus were their decisions at the time that they counseled among themselves to form the heavens and the earth.
And the Gods came down and formed these the generations of the heavens and of the earth, when they were formed in the day that the aGods formed the earth and the heavens, According to all that which they had said concerning every plant of the field before it was in the aearth, and every herb of the field before it grew; for the Gods had not caused it to rain upon the earth when they counseled to do them, and had not formed a man to till the ground.
But there went up a mist from the earth, and watered the whole face of the ground.
And the aGods formed man from the bdust of the ground, and took his cspirit (that is, the man’s spirit), and put it into him; and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and man became a living dsoul.
And the Gods planted a garden, eastward in aEden, and there they put the man, whose spirit they had put into the body which they had formed.
And out of the ground made the Gods to grow every tree that is pleasant to the sight and good for food; the atree of life, also, in the midst of the garden, and the tree of knowledge of good and evil.
There was a river running out of Eden, to water the garden, and from thence it was parted and became into four heads.
And the Gods took the man and put him in the Garden of Eden, to dress it and to keep it.
And the Gods commanded the man, saying: Of every tree of the garden thou mayest freely eat, But of the tree of knowledge of good and evil, thou shalt not eat of it; for in the time that thou eatest thereof, thou shalt surely die.
Now I, Abraham, saw that it was after the Lord’s atime, which was after the time of bKolob; for as yet the Gods had not appointed unto Adam his reckoning.
And the Gods said: Let us make an help meet for the man, for it is not good that the man should be alone, therefore we will form an help meet for him.
And the Gods caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam; and he slept, and they took one of his ribs, and closed up the flesh in the stead thereof; And of the rib which the Gods had taken from man, formed they a awoman, and brought her unto the man.
And Adam said: This was bone of my bones, and aflesh of my flesh; now she shall be called Woman, because she was taken out of man; Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall acleave unto his wife, and they shall be bone flesh.
And they were both naked, the man and his wife, and were not aashamed.
And out of the ground the Gods formed every beast of the field, and every fowl of the air, and brought them unto Adam to see what he would call them; and whatsoever aAdam called every living creature, that should be the name thereof.
And Adam gave anames to all bcattle, to the fowl of the air, to every beast of the field; and for Adam, there was found an chelp meet for him.
The Pearl of Great Price is a selection of choice materials touching many significant aspects of the faith and doctrine of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
These items were translated and produced by the Prophet Joseph Smith, and most were published in the Church periodicals of his day.The first collection of materials carrying the title Pearl of Great Price was made in  by Elder Franklin D. Richards, then a member of the Council of the Twelve and president of the British Mission.
Its purpose was to make more readily accessible some important articles that had had limited circulation in the time of Joseph Smith.
As Church membership increased throughout Europe and America, there was a need to make these items available.
The Pearl of Great Price received wide use and subsequently became a standard work of the Church by action of the First Presidency and the general conference in Salt Lake City on October , .Several revisions have been made in the contents as the needs of the Church have required.
In  portions of the book of Moses not contained in the first edition were added.
In  certain parts of the Pearl of Great Price that duplicated material also published in the Doctrine and Covenants were omitted.
Arrangement into chapters and verses, with footnotes, was done in .
The first publication in double-column pages, with index, was in .
No other changes were made until April , when two items of revelation were added.
In  these two items were removed from the Pearl of Great Price and placed in the Doctrine and Covenants, where they now appear as sections  and .
In the present edition some changes have been made to bring the text into conformity with earlier documents.Following is a brief introduction to the present contents:Selections from the Book of Moses.
An extract from the book of Genesis of Joseph Smith’s translation of the Bible, which he began in June .The Book of Abraham.
An inspired translation of the writings of Abraham.
Joseph Smith began the translation in  after obtaining some Egyptian papyri.
The translation was published serially in the Times and Seasons beginning March , , at Nauvoo, Illinois.Joseph Smith—Matthew.
An extract from the testimony of Matthew in Joseph Smith’s translation of the Bible (see Doctrine and Covenants :– for the divine injunction to begin the translation of the New Testament).Joseph Smith—History.
Excerpts from Joseph Smith’s official testimony and history, which he and his scribes prepared in – and which was published serially in the Times and Seasons in Nauvoo, Illinois, beginning on March , .The Articles of Faith of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
A statement by Joseph Smith published in the Times and Seasons March , , in company with a short history of the Church that was popularly known as the Wentworth Letter.
 The words of God, which he aspake unto Moses at a time when Moses was caught up into an exceedingly high bmountain, And he asaw God bface to face, and he ctalked with him, and the dglory of God was upon Moses; therefore Moses could endure his presence.
And God spake unto Moses, saying: Behold, I am the Lord God aAlmighty, and bEndless is my cname; for I am without beginning of days or end of years; and is not this endless?
And, behold, thou art my son; wherefore alook, and I will show thee the bworkmanship of mine chands; but not all, for my dworks are without eend, and also my fwords, for they never cease.
Wherefore, no man can behold all my aworks, except he behold all my bglory; and no man can cbehold all my dglory, and afterwards remain in the flesh on the earth.
And I have a work for thee, Moses, my son; and thou art in the asimilitude of mine bOnly cBegotten; and mine Only Begotten is and shall be the dSavior, for he is full of egrace and ftruth; but there is gno God beside me, and all things are present with me, for I hknow them all.
And now, behold, this one thing I show unto thee, Moses, my son, for thou art in the world, and now I show it unto thee.
And it came to pass that Moses looked, and beheld the aworld upon which he was created; and Moses bbeheld the world and the ends thereof, and all the children of men which are, and which were created; of the same he greatly cmarveled and wondered.
And the apresence of God withdrew from Moses, that his bglory was not upon Moses; and Moses was left unto himself.
And as he was left unto himself, he cfell unto the earth.
And it came to pass that it was for the space of many hours before Moses did again receive his natural astrength like unto man; and he said unto himself: Now, for this cause I know that bman is cnothing, which thing I never had supposed.
But now mine own eyes have abeheld God; but not my bnatural, but my cspiritual eyes, for my dnatural eyes could not have ebeheld; for I should have fwithered and gdied in his presence; but his hglory was upon me; and I beheld his iface, for I was jtransfigured before him.
And it came to pass that when Moses had said these words, behold, aSatan came btempting him, saying: Moses, son of man, worship me.
And it came to pass that Moses looked upon Satan and said: Who art thou?
For behold, I am a ason of God, in the similitude of his Only Begotten; and where is thy bglory, that I should worship thee?
For behold, I could not look upon God, except his aglory should come upon me, and I were transfigured before him.
But I bcan look upon thee in the natural man.
Is it not so, surely?
Blessed be the name of my God, for his aSpirit hath not altogether withdrawn from me, or else where is thy glory, for it is darkness unto me?
And I can judge between thee and God; for God said unto me: bWorship God, for him only shalt thou cserve.
Get thee hence, Satan; deceive me not; for God said unto me: Thou art after the asimilitude of mine Only Begotten.
And he also gave me commandments when he acalled unto me out of the burning bbush, saying: cCall upon God in the name of mine Only Begotten, and worship me.
And again Moses said: I will not cease to call upon God, I have other things to inquire of him: for his aglory has been upon me, wherefore I can judge between him and thee.
bDepart hence, Satan.
And now, when Moses had said these words, aSatan cried with a loud voice, and ranted upon the earth, and commanded, saying: I am the bOnly Begotten, worship me.
And it came to pass that Moses began to afear exceedingly; and as he began to fear, he saw the bitterness of bhell.
Nevertheless, ccalling upon God, he received dstrength, and he commanded, saying: Depart from me, Satan, for this one God only will I worship, which is the God of eglory.
And now Satan began to tremble, and the earth shook; and Moses received strength, and called upon God, saying: In the name of the Only Begotten, adepart hence, bSatan.
And it came to pass that Satan cried with a loud voice, with weeping, and wailing, and agnashing of teeth; and he departed hence, even from the presence of Moses, that he beheld him not.
And now of this thing Moses bore record; but because of awickedness it is bnot had among the children of men.
And it came to pass that when Satan had departed from the presence of Moses, that Moses lifted up his eyes unto heaven, being filled with the aHoly Ghost, which beareth record of the Father and the Son; And calling upon the name of God, he beheld his aglory again, for it was upon him; and he heard a bvoice, saying: Blessed art thou, Moses, for I, the Almighty, have cchosen thee, and thou shalt be made stronger than many dwaters; for they shall obey thy ecommand as if thou wert fGod.
And lo, I am awith thee, even unto the end of thy days; for thou shalt bdeliver my people from cbondage, even dIsrael my echosen.
And it came to pass, as the voice was still speaking, Moses cast his eyes and abeheld the earth, yea, even all of it; and there was not a particle of it which he did not behold, bdiscerning it by the cSpirit of God.
And he beheld also the inhabitants thereof, and there was not a asoul which he beheld not; and he discerned them by the Spirit of God; and their numbers were great, even numberless as the sand upon the sea shore.
And he beheld many lands; and each land was called aearth, and there were binhabitants on the face thereof.
And it came to pass that Moses called upon God, saying: aTell me, I pray thee, why these things are so, and by what thou madest them?
And behold, the glory of the Lord was upon Moses, so that Moses stood in the presence of God, and talked with him aface to face.
And the Lord God said unto Moses: For mine own bpurpose have I made these things.
Here is cwisdom and it remaineth in me.
And by the aword of my power, have I created them, which is mine Only Begotten Son, who is full of bgrace and truth.
And aworlds without number have I bcreated; and I also created them for mine own purpose; and by the cSon I dcreated them, which is mine eOnly Begotten.
And the afirst man of all men have I called bAdam, which is cmany.
But only an account of this earth, and the inhabitants thereof, give I unto you.
For behold, there are many worlds that have passed away by the word of my power.
And there are many that now stand, and innumerable are they unto man; but all things are numbered unto me, for they are mine and I aknow them.
And it came to pass that Moses spake unto the Lord, saying: Be merciful unto thy servant, O God, and atell me concerning this earth, and the inhabitants thereof, and also the heavens, and then thy servant will be content.
And the Lord God spake unto Moses, saying: The aheavens, they are many, and they cannot be numbered unto man; but they are numbered unto me, for they are mine.
And as one earth shall pass away, and the heavens thereof even so shall another come; and there is no aend to my works, neither to my words.
For behold, this is my awork and my bglory—to bring to pass the cimmortality and deternal elife of man.
And now, Moses, my son, I will speak unto thee concerning this earth upon which thou standest; and thou shalt awrite the things which I shall speak.
And in a day when the children of men shall esteem my words as anaught and btake many of them from the cbook which thou shalt write, behold, I will raise up another dlike unto thee; and they shall be ehad again among the children of men—among as many as shall believe.
(These words were aspoken unto Moses in the mount, the name of which shall not be known among the children of men.
And now they are spoken unto you.
Show them not unto any except them that believe.
Even so.
Amen.)
 Thus the aheaven and the earth were finished, and all the bhost of them.
And on the seventh day I, God, ended my work, and all things which I had made; and I arested on the bseventh day from all my work, and all things which I had made were finished, and I, God, saw that they were good; And I, God, ablessed the seventh day, and bsanctified it; because that in it I had rested from all my cwork which I, God, had created and made.
And now, behold, I say unto you, that these are the generations of the heaven and of the earth, when they were acreated, in the day that I, the Lord God, made the bheaven and the earth, And every plant of the field before it was in the earth, and every herb of the field before it grew.
For I, the Lord God, acreated all things, of which I have spoken, bspiritually, before they were cnaturally upon the face of the earth.
For I, the Lord God, had not caused it to rain upon the face of the earth.
And I, the Lord God, had dcreated all the children of men; and not yet a man to till the eground; for in fheaven gcreated I them; and there was not yet flesh upon the earth, neither in the water, neither in the air; But I, the Lord God, spake, and there went up a amist from the earth, and watered the whole face of the ground.
And I, the Lord God, formed man from the adust of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the bbreath of life; and cman became a living dsoul, the efirst flesh upon the earth, the first man also; nevertheless, all things were before created; but spiritually were they created and made according to my word.
And I, the Lord God, planted a garden eastward in aEden, and there I put the man whom I had formed.
And out of the ground made I, the Lord God, to grow every tree, anaturally, that is pleasant to the sight of man; and man could behold it.
And it became also a bliving soul.
For it was spiritual in the day that I created it; for it remaineth in the sphere in which I, God, created it, yea, even all things which I prepared for the use of man; and man saw that it was good for food.
And I, the Lord God, planted the ctree of life also in the midst of the garden, and also the tree of knowledge of good and evil.
And I, the Lord God, caused a river to go out of aEden to water the garden; and from thence it was parted, and became into four bheads.
And I, the Lord God, called the name of the first Pison, and it compasseth the whole land of aHavilah, where I, the Lord God, created much gold; And the gold of that land was good, and there was bdellium and the aonyx stone.
And the name of the second river was called Gihon; the same that compasseth the whole land of aEthiopia.
And the name of the third river was Hiddekel; that which goeth toward the east of Assyria.
And the fourth river was the Euphrates.
And I, the Lord God, took the man, and put him into the Garden of aEden, to dress it, and to keep it.
And I, the Lord God, commanded the man, saying: Of every tree of the garden thou mayest freely eat, But of the tree of the aknowledge of good and evil, thou shalt not eat of it, nevertheless, thou mayest bchoose for thyself, for it is given unto thee; but, remember that I cforbid it, for in the dday thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely edie.
And I, the Lord God, said unto mine aOnly Begotten, that it was not good that the man should be balone; wherefore, I will make an chelp meet for him.
And out of the ground I, the Lord God, formed every abeast of the field, and every fowl of the air; and commanded that they should come unto Adam, to see what he would call them; and they were also living souls; for I, God, breathed into them the bbreath of life, and commanded that whatsoever Adam called every living creature, that should be the name thereof.
And Adam gave anames to all cattle, and to the fowl of the air, and to every beast of the field; but as for Adam, there was not found an help meet for him.
And I, the Lord God, caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam; and he slept, and I took one of his ribs and closed up the flesh in the stead thereof; And the rib which I, the Lord God, had taken from man, made I a awoman, and brought her unto the man.
And aAdam said: This I know now is bone of my bones, and bflesh of my flesh; she shall be called Woman, because she was taken out of man.
Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall acleave unto his bwife; and cthey shall be done flesh.
And they were both naked, the man and his wife, and were not ashamed.
 And I, the aLord God, spake unto Moses, saying: That bSatan, whom thou hast commanded in the name of mine Only Begotten, is the same which was from the cbeginning, and he came before me, saying—Behold, here am I, send me, I will be thy son, and I will dredeem all mankind, that one soul shall not be lost, and surely eI will do it; wherefore fgive me thine honor.
But, behold, my Beloved aSon, which was my Beloved and bChosen from the beginning, said unto me—cFather, thy dwill be done, and the eglory be thine forever.
Wherefore, because that aSatan brebelled against me, and sought to destroy the cagency of man, which I, the Lord God, had given him, and also, that I should give unto him mine own power; by the power of mine Only Begotten, I caused that he should be dcast down; And he became aSatan, yea, even the bdevil, the father of all clies, to ddeceive and to blind men, and to lead them ecaptive at his will, even as many as would not fhearken unto my voice.
And now the serpent was more asubtle than any beast of the field which I, the Lord God, had made.
And aSatan put it into the heart of the serpent, (for he had drawn away bmany after him,) and he sought also to cbeguile Eve, for he dknew not the emind of God, wherefore he sought to destroy the world.
And he said unto the woman: Yea, hath God said—Ye shall not eat of every tree of the garden?
(And he spake by the mouth of the serpent.)
And the woman said unto the serpent: We may eat of the fruit of the trees of the garden; But of the fruit of the tree which thou beholdest in the midst of the garden, God hath said—Ye shall not eat of it, neither shall ye touch it, lest ye die.
And the serpent said unto the awoman: Ye shall not surely die; For God doth know that in the day ye eat thereof, then your aeyes shall be opened, and ye shall be as gods, bknowing good and evil.
And when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it became pleasant to the eyes, and a tree to be adesired to make her wise, she took of the bfruit thereof, and did ceat, and also gave unto her husband with her, and he did eat.
And the eyes of them both were opened, and they knew that they had been anaked.
And they sewed fig leaves together and made themselves baprons.
And they heard the voice of the Lord God, as they were awalking in the garden, in the cool of the day; and Adam and his wife went to hide themselves from the bpresence of the Lord God amongst the trees of the garden.
And I, the Lord God, called unto Adam, and said unto him: Where agoest thou?
And he said: I heard thy voice in the garden, and I was afraid, because I beheld that I was naked, and I hid myself.
And I, the Lord God, said unto Adam: Who told thee thou wast naked?
Hast thou eaten of the tree whereof I commanded thee that thou shouldst not eat, if so thou shouldst surely adie?
And the man said: The woman thou gavest me, and commandest that she should remain with me, she gave me of the fruit of the tree and I did eat.
And I, the Lord God, said unto the woman: What is this thing which thou hast done?
And the woman said: The serpent abeguiled me, and I did eat.
And I, the Lord God, said unto the serpent: Because thou hast done this thou shalt be acursed above all cattle, and above every beast of the field; upon thy belly shalt thou go, and dust shalt thou eat all the days of thy life; And I will put aenmity between thee and the woman, between thy seed and her seed; and he shall bbruise thy head, and thou shalt bruise his heel.
Unto the woman, I, the Lord God, said: I will greatly multiply thy sorrow and thy conception.
In asorrow thou shalt bring forth children, and thy desire shall be to thy bhusband, and he shall rule over thee.
And unto Adam, I, the Lord God, said: Because thou hast hearkened unto the voice of thy wife, and hast eaten of the fruit of the tree of which I commanded thee, saying—Thou shalt not eat of it, acursed shall be the ground for thy sake; in bsorrow shalt thou eat of it all the days of thy life.
Thorns also, and thistles shall it bring forth to thee, and thou shalt eat the herb of the field.
By the asweat of thy bface shalt thou eat bread, until thou shalt return unto the ground—for thou shalt surely die—for out of it wast thou taken: for cdust thou wast, and unto dust shalt thou return.
And Adam called his wife’s name Eve, because she was the mother of all living; for thus have I, the Lord God, called the first of all women, which are amany.
Unto Adam, and also unto his wife, did I, the Lord God, make coats of askins, and bclothed them.
And I, the Lord God, asaid unto mine Only Begotten: Behold, the bman is become as one of us to cknow good and evil; and now lest he put forth his hand and dpartake also of the etree of life, and eat and live forever, Therefore I, the Lord God, will send him forth from the Garden of aEden, to till the ground from whence he was taken; For as I, the Lord God, liveth, even so my awords cannot return void, for as they go forth out of my mouth they must be fulfilled.
So I drove out the man, and I placed at the east of the Garden of aEden, bcherubim and a flaming sword, which turned every way to keep the way of the tree of life.
(And these are the words which I spake unto my servant Moses, and they are true even as I will; and I have spoken them unto you.
See thou show them unto no man, until I command you, except to them that believe.
Amen.)
 And Adam hearkened unto the voice of God, and called upon his sons to repent.
And Adam knew his wife again, and she bare a son, and he called his name aSeth.
And Adam glorified the name of God; for he said: God hath appointed me another seed, instead of Abel, whom Cain slew.
And God revealed himself unto aSeth, and he rebelled not, but offered an acceptable bsacrifice, like unto his brother Abel.
And to him also was born a son, and he called his name Enos.
And then began these men to acall upon the name of the Lord, and the Lord blessed them; And a abook of bremembrance was kept, in the which was recorded, in the clanguage of Adam, for it was given unto as many as called upon God to write by the spirit of dinspiration; And by them their achildren were taught to read and write, having a blanguage which was cpure and undefiled.
Now this same aPriesthood, which was in the beginning, shall be in the end of the world also.
Now this prophecy Adam spake, as he was moved upon by the aHoly Ghost, and a bgenealogy was kept of the cchildren of God.
And this was the dbook of the generations of Adam, saying: In the day that God created man, in the likeness of God made he him; In the aimage of his own bbody, male and female, ccreated he them, and blessed them, and called their dname Adam, in the day when they were created and became living esouls in the land upon the ffootstool of God.
And aAdam lived one hundred and thirty years, and begat a son in his own likeness, after his own bimage, and called his name Seth.
And the days of Adam, after he had begotten Seth, were eight hundred years, and he begat many sons and daughters; And all the days that Adam lived were nine hundred and thirty years, and he died.
Seth lived one hundred and five years, and begat Enos, and aprophesied in all his days, and taught his son Enos in the ways of God; wherefore Enos prophesied also.
And Seth lived, after he begat Enos, eight hundred and seven years, and begat many sons and daughters.
And the children of amen were numerous upon all the face of the land.
And in those days bSatan had great cdominion among men, and raged in their hearts; and from thenceforth came dwars and bloodshed; and a man’s hand was against his own brother, in administering death, because of esecret fworks, seeking for gpower.
All the days of Seth were nine hundred and twelve years, and he died.
And Enos lived ninety years, and begat aCainan.
And Enos and the residue of the people of God came out from the land, which was called Shulon, and dwelt in a land of promise, which he called after his own son, whom he had named bCainan.
And Enos lived, after he begat Cainan, eight hundred and fifteen years, and begat many sons and daughters.
And all the days of Enos were nine hundred and five years, and he died.
And Cainan lived seventy years, and begat Mahalaleel; and Cainan lived after he begat Mahalaleel eight hundred and forty years, and begat sons and daughters.
And all the days of aCainan were nine hundred and ten years, and he died.
And Mahalaleel lived sixty-five years, and begat Jared; and Mahalaleel lived, after he begat Jared, eight hundred and thirty years, and begat sons and daughters.
And all the days of Mahalaleel were eight hundred and ninety-five years, and he died.
And Jared lived one hundred and sixty-two years, and begat aEnoch; and Jared lived, after he begat Enoch, eight hundred years, and begat sons and daughters.
And Jared btaught Enoch in all the ways of God.
And this is the genealogy of the sons of Adam, who was the ason of God, with whom God, himself, conversed.
And they were apreachers of brighteousness, and spake and cprophesied, and called upon all men, everywhere, to repent; and dfaith was etaught unto the children of men.
And it came to pass that all the days of Jared were nine hundred and sixty-two years, and he died.
And Enoch lived sixty-five years, and begat Methuselah.
And it came to pass that Enoch journeyed in the land, among the people; and as he journeyed, the aSpirit of God descended out of heaven, and abode upon him.
And he heard a avoice from heaven, saying: bEnoch, my son, cprophesy unto this people, and say unto them—Repent, for thus saith the Lord: I am dangry with this people, and my fierce anger is kindled against them; for their hearts have waxed ehard, and their fears are dull of hearing, and their eyes gcannot see afar off; And for these many generations, ever since the day that I created them, have they gone astray, and have adenied me, and have sought their own counsels in the dark; and in their own abominations have they devised murder, and have not kept the commandments, which I gave unto their father, Adam.
Wherefore, they have foresworn themselves, and, by their oaths, they have brought upon themselves death; and a ahell I have prepared for them, if they repent not; And this is a decree, which I have sent forth in the beginning of the world, from my own mouth, from the foundation thereof, and by the mouths of my servants, thy fathers, have I decreed it, even as it shall be sent forth in the world, unto the ends thereof.
And when Enoch had heard these words, he abowed himself to the earth, before the Lord, and spake before the Lord, saying: bWhy is it that I have found favor in thy sight, and am but a lad, and all the people chate me; for I am dslow of speech; wherefore am I thy servant?
And the Lord said unto Enoch: Go forth and do as I have commanded thee, and no man shall pierce thee.
Open thy amouth, and it shall be filled, and I will give thee utterance, for all flesh is in my hands, and I will do as seemeth me good.
Say unto this people: aChoose ye bthis day, to serve the Lord God who made you.
Behold my aSpirit is upon you, wherefore all thy words will I justify; and the bmountains shall flee before you, and the crivers shall turn from their course; and thou shalt abide in me, and I in you; therefore dwalk with me.
And the Lord spake unto Enoch, and said unto him: Anoint thine eyes with aclay, and wash them, and thou shalt see.
And he did so.
And he beheld the aspirits that God had created; and he beheld also things which were not visible to the bnatural eye; and from thenceforth came the saying abroad in the land: A cseer hath the Lord raised up unto his people.
And it came to pass that Enoch went forth in the land, among the people, standing upon the hills and the high places, and cried with a loud voice, testifying against their works; and all men were aoffended because of him.
And they came forth to hear him, upon the high places, saying unto the atent-keepers: Tarry ye here and keep the tents, while we go yonder to behold the seer, for he prophesieth, and there is a strange thing in the land; a bwild man hath come among us.
And it came to pass when they heard him, no man laid hands on him; for afear came on all them that heard him; for he bwalked with God.
And there came a man unto him, whose name was Mahijah, and said unto him: Tell us plainly who thou art, and from whence thou comest?
And he said unto them: I came out from the land of aCainan, the land of my fathers, a land of brighteousness unto this day.
And my father ctaught me in all the ways of God.
And it came to pass, as I journeyed from the land of Cainan, by the sea east, I beheld a vision; and lo, the heavens I saw, and the Lord spake with me, and gave me commandment; wherefore, for this cause, to keep the commandment, I speak forth these words.
And Enoch continued his speech, saying: The Lord which spake with me, the same is the God of heaven, and he is my God, and your God, and ye are my brethren, and why acounsel ye yourselves, and deny the God of heaven?
The heavens he made; the aearth is his bfootstool; and the foundation thereof is his.
Behold, he laid it, an host of men hath he brought in upon the face thereof.
And death hath come upon our fathers; nevertheless we know them, and cannot deny, and even the first of all we know, even aAdam.
For a book of aremembrance we have bwritten among us, according to the pattern given by the finger of God; and it is given in our own clanguage.
And as Enoch spake forth the words of God, the people trembled, and could not astand in his presence.
And he said unto them: Because that Adam afell, we are; and by his fall came bdeath; and we are made partakers of misery and woe.
Behold Satan hath come among the children of men, and atempteth them to bworship him; and men have become ccarnal, dsensual, and devilish, and are shut out from the epresence of God.
But God hath made known unto our fathers that all men must repent.
And he called upon our father Adam by his own voice, saying: I am God; I amade the world, and bmen cbefore they were in the flesh.
And he also said unto him: If thou wilt turn unto me, and hearken unto my voice, and believe, and repent of all thy transgressions, and be abaptized, even in water, in the name of mine Only Begotten Son, who is full of bgrace and truth, which is cJesus Christ, the only dname which shall be given under heaven, whereby esalvation shall come unto the children of men, ye shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, asking all things in his name, and whatsoever ye shall ask, it shall be given you.
And our father Adam spake unto the Lord, and said: Why is it that men must repent and be baptized in water?
And the Lord said unto Adam: Behold I have aforgiven thee thy transgression in the Garden of Eden.
Hence came the saying abroad among the people, that the aSon of God hath batoned for original guilt, wherein the sins of the parents cannot be answered upon the heads of the cchildren, for they are dwhole from the foundation of the world.
And the Lord spake unto Adam, saying: Inasmuch as thy children are aconceived in sin, even so when they begin to grow up, bsin conceiveth in their hearts, and they taste the cbitter, that they may know to prize the good.
And it is given unto them to know good from evil; wherefore they are aagents unto themselves, and I have given unto you another law and commandment.
Wherefore teach it unto your children, that all men, everywhere, must arepent, or they can in nowise inherit the kingdom of God, for no bunclean thing can dwell there, or cdwell in his dpresence; for, in the language of Adam, eMan of Holiness is his name, and the name of his Only Begotten is the fSon of Man, even gJesus Christ, a righteous hJudge, who shall come in the meridian of time.
Therefore I give unto you a acommandment, to bteach these things freely unto your cchildren, saying: That by reason of transgression cometh the fall, which fall bringeth death, and inasmuch as ye were born into the world by water, and blood, and the aspirit, which I have made, and so became of bdust a living soul, even so ye must be cborn again into the kingdom of heaven, of dwater, and of the Spirit, and be cleansed by blood, even the blood of mine Only Begotten; that ye might be sanctified from all sin, and eenjoy the fwords of geternal life in this world, and eternal life in the world to come, even immortal hglory; For by the awater ye keep the commandment; by the Spirit ye are bjustified, and by the cblood ye are dsanctified; Therefore it is given to abide in you; the arecord of heaven; the bComforter; the cpeaceable things of immortal glory; the truth of all things; that which quickeneth all things, which maketh alive all things; that which knoweth all things, and hath all dpower according to wisdom, mercy, truth, justice, and judgment.
And now, behold, I say unto you: This is the aplan of salvation unto all men, through the bblood of mine cOnly Begotten, who shall come in the meridian of time.
And behold, all things have their alikeness, and all things are created and made to bbear record of me, both things which are temporal, and things which are spiritual; things which are in the heavens above, and things which are on the earth, and things which are in the earth, and things which are under the earth, both above and beneath: all things bear record of me.
And it came to pass, when the Lord had spoken with Adam, our father, that Adam cried unto the Lord, and he was acaught away by the Spirit of the Lord, and was carried down into the water, and was laid under the bwater, and was brought forth out of the water.
And thus he was baptized, and the Spirit of God descended upon him, and thus he was aborn of the Spirit, and became quickened in the binner man.
And he heard a voice out of heaven, saying: Thou art baptized with afire, and with the Holy Ghost.
This is the brecord of the Father, and the Son, from henceforth and forever; And thou art after the aorder of him who was without beginning of days or end of years, from all eternity to all eternity.
Behold, thou art aone in me, a son of God; and thus may all become my bsons.
Amen.
 And all the days of aEnoch were four hundred and thirty years.
And it came to pass that Methuselah, the son of Enoch, was anot taken, that the covenants of the Lord might be fulfilled, which he made to Enoch; for he truly covenanted with Enoch that Noah should be of the fruit of his loins.
And it came to pass that Methuselah aprophesied that from his loins should spring all the kingdoms of the earth (through Noah), and he took glory unto himself.
And there came forth a great afamine into the land, and the Lord bcursed the earth with a sore curse, and many of the inhabitants thereof died.
And it came to pass that Methuselah lived one hundred and eighty-seven years, and begat Lamech; And Methuselah lived, after he begat Lamech, seven hundred and eighty-two years, and begat sons and daughters; And all the days of Methuselah were nine hundred and sixty-nine years, and he died.
And Lamech lived one hundred and eighty-two years, and begat a son, And he called his name Noah, saying: This son shall comfort us concerning our work and toil of our hands, because of the ground which the Lord hath acursed.
And Lamech lived, after he begat Noah, five hundred and ninety-five years, and begat sons and daughters; And all the days of Lamech were seven hundred and seventy-seven years, and he died.
And Noah was four hundred and fifty years old, and abegat Japheth; and forty-two years afterward he begat bShem of her who was the mother of Japheth, and when he was five hundred years old he begat cHam.
And aNoah and his sons hearkened unto the Lord, and gave heed, and they were called the bsons of God.
And when these men began to multiply on the face of the earth, and daughters were born unto them, the asons of men saw that those daughters were fair, and they took them bwives, even as they chose.
And the Lord said unto Noah: The daughters of thy sons have sold themselves; for behold mine anger is kindled against the sons of men, for they will not ahearken to my voice.
And it came to pass that Noah aprophesied, and taught the things of God, even as it was in the beginning.
And the Lord said unto Noah: My Spirit shall not always astrive with man, for he shall know that all bflesh shall die; yet his days shall be an chundred and twenty years; and if men do not repent, I will send in the dfloods upon them.
And in those days there were agiants on the earth, and they sought Noah to take away his blife; but the Lord was with Noah, and the cpower of the Lord was upon him.
And the Lord aordained bNoah after his own corder, and commanded him that he should go forth and ddeclare his Gospel unto the children of men, even as it was given unto Enoch.
And it came to pass that Noah called upon the children of men that they should arepent; but they hearkened not unto his words; And also, after that they had heard him, they came up before him, saying: Behold, we are the sons of God; have we not taken unto ourselves the daughters of men?
And are we not aeating and drinking, and marrying and giving in marriage?
And our wives bear unto us children, and the same are mighty men, which are like unto men of old, men of great renown.
And they hearkened not unto the words of Noah.
And God saw that the awickedness of men had become great in the earth; and every man was lifted up in the bimagination of the thoughts of his heart, being only evil continually.
And it came to pass that Noah continued his apreaching unto the people, saying: Hearken, and give heed unto my words; aBelieve and repent of your sins and be bbaptized in the name of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, even as our fathers, and ye shall receive the Holy Ghost, that ye may have all things made cmanifest; and if ye do not this, the floods will come in upon you; nevertheless they hearkened not.
And it arepented Noah, and his heart was pained that the Lord had made man on the earth, and it grieved him at the heart.
And the Lord said: I will adestroy man whom I have created, from the face of the earth, both man and beast, and the creeping things, and the fowls of the air; for it repenteth Noah that I have created them, and that I have made them; and he hath called upon me; for they have sought his blife.
And thus Noah found agrace in the eyes of the Lord; for Noah was a just man, and bperfect in his generation; and he cwalked with God, as did also his three sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth.
The aearth was bcorrupt before God, and it was filled with violence.
And God looked upon the earth, and, behold, it was corrupt, for all flesh had corrupted its away upon the earth.
And God said unto Noah: The end of all flesh is come before me, for the earth is filled with violence, and behold I will adestroy all flesh from off the earth.
