AMOS 3
Witnesses Summoned Against Israel
1Hear this word, people of Israel, the word the Lord has spoken against you—against the whole family I brought up out of Egypt:
2“You only have I chosen
of all the families of the earth;
therefore I will punish you
for all your sins.”
3Do two walk together
unless they have agreed to do so?
4Does a lion roar in the thicket
when it has no prey?
Does it growl in its den
when it has caught nothing?
5Does a bird swoop down to a trap on the ground
when no bait is there?
Does a trap spring up from the ground
if it has not caught anything?
6When a trumpet sounds in a city,
do not the people tremble?
When disaster comes to a city,
has not the Lord caused it?
7Surely the Sovereign Lord does nothing
without revealing his plan
to his servants the prophets.
8The lion has roared—
who will not fear?
The Sovereign Lord has spoken—
who can but prophesy?
9Proclaim to the fortresses of Ashdod
and to the fortresses of Egypt:
“Assemble yourselves on the mountains of Samaria;
see the great unrest within her
and the oppression among her people.”
10“They do not know how to do right,” declares the Lord,
“who store up in their fortresses
what they have plundered and looted.”
11Therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord says:
“An enemy will overrun your land,
pull down your strongholds
and plunder your fortresses.”
12This is what the Lord says:
“As a shepherd rescues from the lion’s mouth
only two leg bones or a piece of an ear,
so will the Israelites living in Samaria be rescued,
with only the head of a bed
and a piece of fabric from a couch.”
13“Hear this and testify against the descendants of Jacob,” declares the Lord, the Lord God Almighty.
14“On the day I punish Israel for her sins,
I will destroy the altars of Bethel;
the horns of the altar will be cut off
and fall to the ground.
15I will tear down the winter house
along with the summer house;
the houses adorned with ivory will be destroyed
and the mansions will be demolished,”
declares the Lord.