JOB 34
1Then Elihu said:
2“Hear my words, you wise men;
listen to me, you men of learning.
3For the ear tests words
as the tongue tastes food.
4Let us discern for ourselves what is right;
let us learn together what is good.
5“Job says, ‘I am innocent,
but God denies me justice.
6Although I am right,
I am considered a liar;
although I am guiltless,
his arrow inflicts an incurable wound.’
7Is there anyone like Job,
who drinks scorn like water?
8He keeps company with evildoers;
he associates with the wicked.
9For he says, ‘There is no profit
in trying to please God.’
10“So listen to me, you men of understanding.
Far be it from God to do evil,
from the Almighty to do wrong.
11He repays everyone for what they have done;
he brings on them what their conduct deserves.
12It is unthinkable that God would do wrong,
that the Almighty would pervert justice.
13Who appointed him over the earth?
Who put him in charge of the whole world?
14If it were his intention
and he withdrew his spirit and breath,
15all humanity would perish together
and mankind would return to the dust.
16“If you have understanding, hear this;
listen to what I say.
17Can someone who hates justice govern?
Will you condemn the just and mighty One?
18Is he not the One who says to kings, ‘You are worthless,’
and to nobles, ‘You are wicked,’
19who shows no partiality to princes
and does not favor the rich over the poor,
for they are all the work of his hands?
20They die in an instant, in the middle of the night;
the people are shaken and they pass away;
the mighty are removed without human hand.
21“His eyes are on the ways of mortals;
he sees their every step.
22There is no deep shadow, no utter darkness,
where evildoers can hide.
23God has no need to examine people further,
that they should come before him for judgment.
24Without inquiry he shatters the mighty
and sets up others in their place.
25Because he takes note of their deeds,
he overthrows them in the night and they are crushed.
26He punishes them for their wickedness
where everyone can see them,
27because they turned from following him
and had no regard for any of his ways.
28They caused the cry of the poor to come before him,
so that he heard the cry of the needy.
29But if he remains silent, who can condemn him?
If he hides his face, who can see him?
Yet he is over individual and nation alike,
30to keep the godless from ruling,
from laying snares for the people.
31“Suppose someone says to God,
‘I am guilty but will offend no more.
32Teach me what I cannot see;
if I have done wrong, I will not do so again.’
33Should God then reward you on your terms,
when you refuse to repent?
You must decide, not I;
so tell me what you know.
34“Men of understanding declare,
wise men who hear me say to me,
35‘Job speaks without knowledge;
his words lack insight.’
36Oh, that Job might be tested to the utmost
for answering like a wicked man!
37To his sin he adds rebellion;
scornfully he claps his hands among us
and multiplies his words against God.”