PROVERBS 10
Proverbs of Solomon
1The proverbs of Solomon:
A wise son brings joy to his father,
but a foolish son brings grief to his mother.
2Ill-gotten treasures have no lasting value,
but righteousness delivers from death.
3The Lord does not let the righteous go hungry,
but he thwarts the craving of the wicked.
4Lazy hands make for poverty,
but diligent hands bring wealth.
5He who gathers crops in summer is a prudent son,
but he who sleeps during harvest is a disgraceful son.
6Blessings crown the head of the righteous,
but violence overwhelms the mouth of the wicked.
7The name of the righteous is used in blessings,
but the name of the wicked will rot.
8The wise in heart accept commands,
but a chattering fool comes to ruin.
9Whoever walks in integrity walks securely,
but whoever takes crooked paths will be found out.
10Whoever winks maliciously causes grief,
and a chattering fool comes to ruin.
11The mouth of the righteous is a fountain of life,
but the mouth of the wicked conceals violence.
12Hatred stirs up conflict,
but love covers over all wrongs.
13Wisdom is found on the lips of the discerning,
but a rod is for the back of one who has no sense.
14The wise store up knowledge,
but the mouth of a fool invites ruin.
15The wealth of the rich is their fortified city,
but poverty is the ruin of the poor.
16The wages of the righteous is life,
but the earnings of the wicked are sin and death.
17Whoever heeds discipline shows the way to life,
but whoever ignores correction leads others astray.
18Whoever conceals hatred with lying lips
and spreads slander is a fool.
19Sin is not ended by multiplying words,
but the prudent hold their tongues.
20The tongue of the righteous is choice silver,
but the heart of the wicked is of little value.
21The lips of the righteous nourish many,
but fools die for lack of sense.
22The blessing of the Lord brings wealth,
without painful toil for it.
23A fool finds pleasure in wicked schemes,
but a person of understanding delights in wisdom.
24What the wicked dread will overtake them;
what the righteous desire will be granted.
25When the storm has swept by, the wicked are gone,
but the righteous stand firm forever.
26As vinegar to the teeth and smoke to the eyes,
so are sluggards to those who send them.
27The fear of the Lord adds length to life,
but the years of the wicked are cut short.
28The prospect of the righteous is joy,
but the hopes of the wicked come to nothing.
29The way of the Lord is a refuge for the blameless,
but it is the ruin of those who do evil.
30The righteous will never be uprooted,
but the wicked will not remain in the land.
31From the mouth of the righteous comes the fruit of wisdom,
but a perverse tongue will be silenced.
32The lips of the righteous know what finds favor,
but the mouth of the wicked only what is perverse.