PROVERBS 13
1A wise son heeds his father’s instruction,
but a mocker does not respond to rebukes.
2From the fruit of their lips people enjoy good things,
but the unfaithful have an appetite for violence.
3Those who guard their lips preserve their lives,
but those who speak rashly will come to ruin.
4A sluggard’s appetite is never filled,
but the desires of the diligent are fully satisfied.
5The righteous hate what is false,
but the wicked make themselves a stench
and bring shame on themselves.
6Righteousness guards the person of integrity,
but wickedness overthrows the sinner.
7One person pretends to be rich, yet has nothing;
another pretends to be poor, yet has great wealth.
8A person’s riches may ransom their life,
but the poor cannot respond to threatening rebukes.
9The light of the righteous shines brightly,
but the lamp of the wicked is snuffed out.
10Where there is strife, there is pride,
but wisdom is found in those who take advice.
11Dishonest money dwindles away,
but whoever gathers money little by little makes it grow.
12Hope deferred makes the heart sick,
but a longing fulfilled is a tree of life.
13Whoever scorns instruction will pay for it,
but whoever respects a command is rewarded.
14The teaching of the wise is a fountain of life,
turning a person from the snares of death.
15Good judgment wins favor,
but the way of the unfaithful leads to their destruction.
16All who are prudent act with knowledge,
but fools expose their folly.
17A wicked messenger falls into trouble,
but a trustworthy envoy brings healing.
18Whoever disregards discipline comes to poverty and shame,
but whoever heeds correction is honored.
19A longing fulfilled is sweet to the soul,
but fools detest turning from evil.
20Walk with the wise and become wise,
for a companion of fools suffers harm.
21Trouble pursues the sinner,
but the righteous are rewarded with good things.
22A good person leaves an inheritance for their children’s children,
but a sinner’s wealth is stored up for the righteous.
23An unplowed field produces food for the poor,
but injustice sweeps it away.
24Whoever spares the rod hates their children,
but the one who loves their children is careful to discipline them.
25The righteous eat to their hearts’ content,
but the stomach of the wicked goes hungry.