1 And the Lord commanded the brother of Jared to go down out of the amount from the presence of the Lord, and bwrite the things which he had seen; and they were forbidden to come unto the children of men cuntil after that he should be lifted up upon the cross; and for this cause did king Mosiah keep them, that they should not come unto the world until after Christ should show himself unto his people.
2 And after Christ truly had showed himself unto his people he commanded that they should be made manifest.
3 And now, after that, they have all dwindled in unbelief; and there is anone save it be the Lamanites, and they have rejected the gospel of Christ; therefore I am commanded that I should bhide them up again in the earth.
4 Behold, I have written upon these plates the avery things which the brother of Jared saw; and there never were bgreater things made manifest than those which were made manifest unto the brother of Jared.
5 Wherefore the Lord hath commanded me to write them; and I have written them. And he commanded me that I should aseal them up; and he also hath commanded that I should seal up the interpretation thereof; wherefore I have sealed up the binterpreters, according to the commandment of the Lord.
6 For the Lord said unto me: They shall not go forth unto the Gentiles until the day that they shall repent of their iniquity, and become clean before the Lord.
7 And in that day that they shall exercise afaith in me, saith the Lord, even as the brother of Jared did, that they may become bsanctified in me, then will I cmanifest unto them the things which the brother of Jared saw, even to the unfolding unto them all my drevelations, saith Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the eFather of the heavens and of the earth, and all things that in them are.
8 And he that will acontend against the word of the Lord, let him be accursed; and he that shall bdeny these things, let him be accursed; for unto them will I show cno greater things, saith Jesus Christ; for I am he who speaketh.
9 And at my command the heavens are opened and are ashut; and at my word the bearth shall shake; and at my command the inhabitants thereof shall pass away, even so as by fire.
10 And he that believeth not my words believeth not my disciples; and if it so be that I do not speak, judge ye; for ye shall know that it is I that speaketh, at the alast day.
11 But he that abelieveth these things which I have spoken, him will I visit with the manifestations of my Spirit, and he shall bknow and bear record. For because of my Spirit he shall cknow that these things are dtrue; for it persuadeth men to do good.
12 And whatsoever thing persuadeth men to do good is of me; for agood cometh of none save it be of me. I am the same that leadeth men to all good; he that will bnot believe my words will not believe me—that I am; and he that will not believe me will not believe the Father who sent me. For behold, I am the Father, I am the clight, and the dlife, and the etruth of the world.
13 aCome unto me, O ye Gentiles, and I will show unto you the greater things, the knowledge which is hid up because of unbelief.
14 Come unto me, O ye house of Israel, and it shall be made amanifest unto you how great things the Father hath laid up for you, from the foundation of the world; and it hath not come unto you, because of unbelief.
15 Behold, when ye shall rend that veil of unbelief which doth cause you to remain in your awful state of wickedness, and hardness of heart, and blindness of mind, then shall the great and marvelous things which have been ahid up from the foundation of the world from you—yea, when ye shall bcall upon the Father in my name, with a broken heart and a contrite spirit, then shall ye know that the Father hath remembered the covenant which he made unto your fathers, O house of Israel.
16 And then shall my arevelations which I have caused to be written by my servant John be unfolded in the eyes of all the people. Remember, when ye see these things, ye shall know that the time is at hand that they shall be made manifest in very deed.
17 Therefore, awhen ye shall receive this record ye may know that the work of the Father has commenced upon all the face of the land.
18 Therefore, arepent all ye ends of the earth, and come unto me, and believe in my gospel, and be bbaptized in my name; for he that believeth and is baptized shall be saved; but he that believeth not shall be damned; and csigns shall follow them that believe in my name.
19 And blessed is he that is found afaithful unto my name at the last day, for he shall be blifted up to dwell in the kingdom prepared for him cfrom the foundation of the world. And behold it is I that hath spoken it. Amen.