1 Hearken, O ye people of my achurch, to whom the bkingdom has been given; hearken ye and give ear to him who laid the foundation of the earth, who cmade the heavens and all the dhosts thereof, and by whom all things were made which elive, and move, and have a being.
2 And again I say, hearken unto my voice, lest adeath shall overtake you; in an bhour when ye think not the summer shall be past, and the charvest ended, and your souls not saved.
3 Listen to him who is the aadvocate with the Father, who is pleading your cause before him—
4 Saying: Father, behold the asufferings and bdeath of him who did no csin, in whom thou wast well pleased; behold the blood of thy Son which was shed, the blood of him whom thou gavest that thyself might be dglorified;
5 Wherefore, Father, spare these my abrethren that bbelieve on my name, that they may come unto me and have ceverlasting life.
6 Hearken, O ye people of my church, and ye elders listen together, and hear my voice while it is called atoday, and harden not your hearts;
7 For verily I say unto you that I am aAlpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, the light and the life of the world—a blight that shineth in darkness and the darkness comprehendeth it not.
8 I came unto mine own, and mine own areceived me not; but unto as many as received me gave I bpower to do many cmiracles, and to become the dsons of God; and even unto them that ebelieved on my name gave I power to obtain eternal flife.
9 And even so I have sent mine aeverlasting bcovenant into the world, to be a clight to the world, and to be a dstandard for my people, and for the eGentiles to seek to it, and to be a fmessenger before my face to prepare the way before me.
10 Wherefore, come ye unto it, and with him that cometh I will areason as with men in days of old, and I will show unto you my strong reasoning.
11 Wherefore, hearken ye together and let me show unto you even my awisdom—the wisdom of him whom ye say is the God of bEnoch, and his brethren,
12 Who were aseparated from the earth, and were received unto myself—a bcity reserved until a cday of righteousness shall come—a day which was sought for by all holy men, and they found it not because of wickedness and abominations;
13 And confessed they were astrangers and pilgrims on the earth;
14 But obtained a apromise that they should find it and see it in their flesh.
15 Wherefore, hearken and I will reason with you, and I will aspeak unto you and prophesy, as unto men in days of old.
16 And I will show it plainly as I showed it unto my adisciples as I stood before them in the flesh, and spake unto them, saying: As ye have asked of me concerning the bsigns of my coming, in the day when I shall come in my cglory in the clouds of heaven, to fulfil the promises that I have made unto your fathers,
17 For as ye have looked upon the long aabsence of your bspirits from your bodies to be a bondage, I will show unto you how the day of redemption shall come, and also the crestoration of the dscattered Israel.
18 And now ye abehold this temple which is in Jerusalem, which ye call the house of God, and your enemies say that this house shall never fall.
19 But, verily I say unto you, that adesolation shall come upon this generation as a thief in the night, and this people shall be destroyed and bscattered among all nations.
20 And this atemple which ye now see shall be thrown down that there shall not be left one stone upon another.
21 And it shall come to pass, that this ageneration of Jews shall not pass away until every desolation which I have told you concerning them shall come bto pass.
22 Ye say that ye know that the aend of the world cometh; ye say also that ye know that the heavens and the earth shall pass away;
23 And in this ye say truly, for so it is; but these things which I have told you shall not apass away until all shall be fulfilled.
24 And this I have told you concerning Jerusalem; and when that day shall come, shall a remnant be ascattered among all bnations;
25 But they shall be agathered again; but they shall remain until the times of the bGentiles be fulfilled.
26 And in athat day shall be heard of bwars and rumors of wars, and the whole earth shall be in commotion, and men’s hearts shall cfail them, and they shall say that Christ ddelayeth his coming until the end of the earth.
27 And the alove of men shall wax cold, and biniquity shall abound.
28 And when the times of the aGentiles is come in, a blight shall break forth among them that sit in darkness, and it shall be the fulness of my cgospel;
29 But they areceive it not; for they perceive not the light, and they turn their bhearts from me because of the cprecepts of men.
30 And in that generation shall the atimes of the Gentiles be fulfilled.
31 And there shall be men standing in that ageneration, that shall not pass until they shall see an overflowing bscourge; for a desolating csickness shall cover the land.
32 But my disciples shall astand in holy places, and shall not be moved; but among the wicked, men shall lift up their voices and bcurse God and die.
33 And there shall be aearthquakes also in divers places, and many desolations; yet men will harden their hearts against me, and they will take up the bsword, one against another, and they will kill one another.
34 And now, when I the Lord had spoken these words unto my disciples, they were troubled.
35 And I said unto them: Be not atroubled, for, when all these things shall come to pass, ye may know that the promises which have been made unto you shall be fulfilled.
36 And when the alight shall begin to break forth, it shall be with them like unto a parable which I will show you—
37 Ye look and behold the afig trees, and ye see them with your eyes, and ye say when they begin to shoot forth, and their leaves are yet tender, that summer is now nigh at hand;
38 Even so it shall be in that day when they shall see all these things, then shall they know that the hour is nigh.
39 And it shall come to pass that he that afeareth me shall be blooking forth for the great cday of the Lord to dcome, even for the esigns of the coming of the fSon of Man.
40 And they shall see signs and awonders, for they shall be shown forth in the heavens above, and in the earth beneath.
41 And they shall behold blood, and afire, and vapors of bsmoke.
42 And before the day of the Lord shall come, the asun shall be darkened, and the moon be turned into blood, and the stars fall from heaven.
43 And the aremnant shall be gathered unto this place;
44 And then they shall look for me, and, behold, I will come; and they shall see me in the aclouds of heaven, clothed with power and great bglory; with all the holy angels; and he that cwatches not for me shall be cut off.
45 But before the arm of the Lord shall fall, an angel shall sound his atrump, and the bsaints that have slept shall ccome forth to meet me in the dcloud.
46 Wherefore, if ye have slept in apeace blessed are you; for as you now behold me and know that I am, even so shall ye bcome unto me and your souls shall clive, and your redemption shall be perfected; and the saints shall come forth from the dfour quarters of the earth.
47 Then shall the aarm of the Lord fall upon the nations.
48 And then shall the Lord set his foot upon this amount, and it shall cleave in twain, and the earth shall btremble, and reel to and fro, and the cheavens also dshall shake.
49 And the Lord shall utter his voice, and all the ends of the earth shall hear it; and the nations of the earth shall amourn, and they that have blaughed shall see their cfolly.
50 And calamity shall cover the amocker, and the scorner shall be consumed; and they that have watched for iniquity shall be hewn down and bcast into the cfire.
51 And then shall the aJews blook upon me and say: What are these cwounds in thine hands and in thy feet?
52 Then shall they know that I am the Lord; for I will say unto them: These wounds are the wounds with which I was awounded in the house of my friends. I am he who was lifted up. I am Jesus that was bcrucified. I am the cSon of God.
53 And then shall they aweep because of their iniquities; then shall they blament because they cpersecuted their dking.
54 And then shall the aheathen nations be bredeemed, and they that cknew no dlaw shall have part in the efirst fresurrection; and it shall be gtolerable for them.
55 And aSatan shall be bbound, that he shall have no place in the hearts of the children of men.
56 And at that day, when I shall come in my aglory, shall the parable be fulfilled which I spake concerning the ten bvirgins.
57 For they that are wise and have received the atruth, and have taken the Holy Spirit for their bguide, and have not been deceived—verily I say unto you, they shall not be hewn down and cast into the cfire, but shall abide the day.
58 And the aearth shall be given unto them for an binheritance; and they shall cmultiply and wax strong, and their dchildren shall egrow up without fsin unto gsalvation.
59 For the Lord shall be in their amidst, and his bglory shall be upon them, and he will be their cking and their dlawgiver.
60 And now, behold, I say unto you, it shall not be given unto you to know any further concerning this chapter, until the aNew Testament be translated, and in it all these things shall be made known;
61 Wherefore I give unto you that ye may now translate it, that ye may be prepared for the things to come.
62 For verily I say unto you, that great things await you;
63 Ye hear of awars in foreign lands; but, behold, I say unto you, they are nigh, even at your bdoors, and not many years hence ye shall hear of wars in your own lands.
64 Wherefore I, the Lord, have said, gather ye out from the aeastern lands, assemble ye yourselves together ye elders of my church; go ye forth into the western countries, call upon the inhabitants to repent, and inasmuch as they do repent, build up churches unto me.
65 And with one heart and with one mind, gather up your riches that ye may apurchase an inheritance which shall hereafter be appointed unto you.
66 And it shall be called the aNew Jerusalem, a bland of cpeace, a city of drefuge, a place of esafety for the saints of the Most High God;
67 And the aglory of the Lord shall be there, and the bterror of the Lord also shall be there, insomuch that the wicked will not come unto it, and it shall be called Zion.
68 And it shall come to pass among the wicked, that every man that will not take his sword against his aneighbor must needs flee unto bZion for safety.
69 And there shall be agathered unto it out of every bnation under heaven; and it shall be the only people that shall not be at cwar one with another.
70 And it shall be said among the wicked: Let us not go up to battle against Zion, for the inhabitants of Zion are aterrible; wherefore we cannot stand.
71 And it shall come to pass that the righteous shall be gathered out from among all nations, and shall come to Zion, singing with asongs of everlasting bjoy.
72 And now I say unto you, keep these things from going abroad unto the world until it is expedient in me, that ye may accomplish this work in the eyes of the people, and in the eyes of your enemies, that they may not know your works until ye have accomplished the thing which I have commanded you;
73 That when they shall know it, that they may consider these things.
74 For when the Lord shall appear he shall be aterrible unto them, that fear may seize upon them, and they shall stand afar off and tremble.
75 And all nations shall be afraid because of the terror of the Lord, and the power of his might. Even so. Amen.