1 Hearken, O ye elders of my church, and give ear to the avoice of the living God; and attend to the words of wisdom which shall be given unto you, according as ye have asked and are agreed as touching the church, and the bspirits which have gone abroad in the earth.
2 Behold, verily I say unto you, that there are many spirits which are false aspirits, which have gone forth in the earth, deceiving the world.
3 And also aSatan hath sought to deceive you, that he might overthrow you.
4 Behold, I, the Lord, have looked upon you, and have seen aabominations in the church that bprofess my name.
5 But blessed are they who are faithful and aendure, whether in life or in death, for they shall inherit eternal life.
6 But wo unto them that are adeceivers and hypocrites, for, thus saith the Lord, I will bring them to judgment.
7 Behold, verily I say unto you, there are ahypocrites among you, who have deceived some, which has given the badversary cpower; but behold dsuch shall be reclaimed;
8 But the ahypocrites shall be detected and shall be bcut off, either in life or in death, even as I will; and wo unto them who are cut off from my church, for the same are overcome of the world.
9 Wherefore, let every man beware lest he do that which is not in truth and righteousness before me.
10 And now come, saith the Lord, by the Spirit, unto the elders of his church, and let us areason together, that ye may understand;
11 Let us reason even as a man reasoneth one with another face to face.
12 Now, when a man reasoneth he is understood of man, because he reasoneth as a man; even so will I, the Lord, reason with you that you may aunderstand.
13 Wherefore, I the Lord ask you this question—unto what were ye aordained?
14 To preach my gospel by the aSpirit, even the bComforter which was sent forth to teach the truth.
15 And then received ye aspirits which ye could not understand, and received them to be of God; and in this are ye justified?
16 Behold ye shall answer this question yourselves; nevertheless, I will be amerciful unto you; he that is weak among you hereafter shall be made bstrong.
17 Verily I say unto you, he that is ordained of me and sent forth to apreach the word of truth by the Comforter, in the Spirit of truth, doth he bpreach it by the Spirit of truth or some other way?
18 And if it be by some other way it is not of God.
19 And again, he that receiveth the word of truth, doth he receive it by the Spirit of truth or some other way?
20 If it be some other way it is not of God.
21 Therefore, why is it that ye cannot understand and know, that he that receiveth the word by the aSpirit of truth receiveth it as it is preached by the Spirit of truth?
22 Wherefore, he that preacheth and he that receiveth, understand one another, and both are aedified and brejoice together.
23 And that which doth not aedify is not of God, and is bdarkness.
24 That which is of God is alight; and he that breceiveth clight, and dcontinueth in God, receiveth more elight; and that light groweth brighter and brighter until the perfect day.
25 And again, verily I say unto you, and I say it that you may know the atruth, that you may chase darkness from among you;
26 He that is aordained of God and sent forth, the same is appointed to be the bgreatest, notwithstanding he is the cleast and the dservant of all.
27 Wherefore, he is possessor of all things; for all things are asubject unto him, both in heaven and on the earth, the life and the light, the Spirit and the bpower, sent forth by the will of the Father through Jesus Christ, his Son.
28 But no man is possessor of aall things except he be bpurified and ccleansed from all sin.
29 And if ye are apurified and cleansed from all bsin, ye shall cask whatsoever you will in the name of Jesus and it shall be done.
30 But know this, it shall be given you what you shall aask; and as ye are appointed to the bhead, the spirits shall be subject unto you.
31 Wherefore, it shall come to pass, that if you behold a aspirit manifested that you cannot understand, and you receive not that spirit, ye shall ask of the Father in the name of Jesus; and if he give not unto you that spirit, then you may know that it is not of God.
32 And it shall be given unto you, apower over that spirit; and you shall proclaim against that spirit with a loud voice that it is bnot of God—
33 Not with arailing accusation, that ye be not overcome, neither with bboasting nor rejoicing, lest you be seized therewith.
34 He that receiveth of God, let him aaccount it of God; and let him rejoice that he is accounted of God worthy to receive.
35 And by giving heed and doing these things which ye have received, and which ye shall hereafter receive—and the akingdom is given byou of the Father, and cpower to dovercome all things which are not ordained of him—
36 And behold, verily I say unto you, blessed are you who are now hearing these words of mine from the mouth of my servant, for your sins are aforgiven you.
37 Let my servant Joseph Wakefield, in whom I am well pleased, and my servant aParley P. Pratt go forth among the churches and strengthen them by the word of bexhortation;
38 And also my servant John Corrill, or as many of my servants as are ordained unto this office, and let them labor in the avineyard; and let no man hinder them doing that which I have appointed unto them—
39 Wherefore, in this thing my servant aEdward Partridge is not justified; nevertheless let him repent and he shall be forgiven.
40 Behold, ye are little children and ye cannot abear all things now; ye must bgrow in cgrace and in the knowledge of the truth.
41 aFear not, little bchildren, for you are mine, and I have covercome the world, and you are of them that my Father hath dgiven me;
42 And none of them that my Father hath given me shall be alost.
43 And the Father and I are aone. I am bin the Father and the Father in me; and inasmuch as ye have received me, ye are in me and I in you.
44 Wherefore, I am in your midst, and I am the agood bshepherd, and the cstone of Israel. He that buildeth upon this drock shall never efall.
45 And the aday cometh that you shall hear my voice and bsee me, and cknow that I am.
46 aWatch, therefore, that ye may be bready. Even so. Amen.