1 Behold, thus saith the Lord unto my servant aWilliam E. McLellin—Blessed are you, inasmuch as you have bturned away from your iniquities, and have received my truths, saith the Lord your Redeemer, the cSavior of the world, even of as many as believe on my name.
2 Verily I say unto you, blessed are you for receiving mine aeverlasting covenant, even the fulness of my gospel, sent forth unto the children of men, that they might have blife and be made cpartakers of the dglories which are to be revealed in the last days, as it was written by the prophets and apostles in days of old.
3 Verily I say unto you, my servant William, that you are clean, but not aall; repent, therefore, of those things which are not pleasing in my sight, saith the Lord, for the Lord will bshow them unto you.
4 And now, verily, I, the Lord, will show unto you what I awill concerning you, or what is my will concerning you.
5 Behold, verily I say unto you, that it is my will that you should aproclaim my gospel from land to land, and from bcity to city, yea, in those regions round about where it has not been proclaimed.
6 Tarry not many days in this place; go anot up unto the land of Zion as yet; but inasmuch as you can bsend, send; otherwise, think not of thy property.
7 aGo unto the eastern lands, bear btestimony in every place, unto every people and in their csynagogues, reasoning with the people.
8 Let my servant Samuel H. Smith go with you, and forsake him not, and give him thine instructions; and he that is afaithful shall be made bstrong in every place; and I, the Lord, will go with you.
9 Lay your ahands upon the bsick, and they shall crecover. Return not till I, the Lord, shall send you. Be patient in affliction. dAsk, and ye shall receive; knock, and it shall be opened unto you.
10 Seek not to be acumbered. Forsake all bunrighteousness. Commit not cadultery—a temptation with which thou hast been troubled.
11 aKeep these sayings, for they are true and bfaithful; and thou shalt cmagnify thine office, and push many people to dZion with esongs of everlasting joy upon their heads.
12 aContinue in these things even unto the end, and you shall have a bcrown of eternal life at the right hand of my Father, who is full of cgrace and truth.
13 Verily, thus saith the Lord your aGod, your Redeemer, even Jesus Christ. Amen.