1 Behold, I say unto you, my servants aEzra and Northrop, open ye your ears and hearken to the voice of the Lord your God, whose bword is quick and powerful, sharper than a two-edged sword, to the dividing asunder of the joints and marrow, soul and spirit; and is a discerner of the thoughts and cintents of the heart.
2 For verily, verily, I say unto you that ye are called to lift up your voices as with the asound of a trump, to declare my gospel unto a crooked and bperverse generation.
3 For behold, the afield is bwhite already to harvest; and it is the celeventh hour, and the last time that I shall call dlaborers into my vineyard.
4 And my avineyard has become bcorrupted every whit; and there is none which doeth cgood save it be a few; and they derr in many instances because of epriestcrafts, all having corrupt minds.
5 And verily, verily, I say unto you, that this achurch have I bestablished and called forth out of the cwilderness.
6 And even so will I agather mine elect from the bfour quarters of the earth, even as many as will believe in me, and hearken unto my voice.
7 Yea, verily, verily, I say unto you, that the field is awhite already to harvest; wherefore, thrust in your sickles, and reap with all your might, mind, and strength.
8 aOpen your mouths and they shall be filled, and you shall become even as bNephi of old, who journeyed from Jerusalem in the wilderness.
9 Yea, open your mouths and spare not, and you shall be laden with asheaves upon your backs, for lo, I am with you.
10 Yea, open your mouths and they shall be filled, saying: aRepent, repent, and prepare ye the way of the Lord, and make his paths straight; for the bkingdom of heaven is at hand;
11 Yea, arepent and be baptized, every one of you, for a bremission of your sins; yea, be baptized even by water, and then cometh the baptism of fire and of the Holy Ghost.
12 Behold, verily, verily, I say unto you, this is my agospel; and remember that they shall have faith in me or they can in nowise be saved;
13 And upon this arock I will build my church; yea, upon this rock ye are built, and if ye continue, the bgates of hell shall not prevail against you.
14 And ye shall remember the church aarticles and covenants to keep them.
15 And whoso having faith you shall aconfirm in my church, by the laying on of the bhands, and I will bestow the cgift of the Holy Ghost upon them.
16 And the Book of Mormon and the holy scriptures are given of me for your ainstruction; and the power of my bSpirit cquickeneth all things.
17 Wherefore, be faithful, praying always, having your alamps btrimmed and burning, and oil with you, that you may be cready at the coming of the dBridegroom—
18 For behold, verily, verily, I say unto you, that I acome quickly. Even so. Amen.