1 The Lord spake unto Joseph Smith, Jun., saying: Hearken unto me, saith the Lord your God, who are ordained unto the ahigh priesthood of my church, who have assembled yourselves together;
2 And listen to the acounsel of him who has bordained you from on high, who shall speak in your ears the words of cwisdom, that salvation may be unto you in that thing which you have presented before me, saith the Lord God.
3 For verily I say unto you, the time has come, and is now at hand; and behold, and lo, it must needs be that there be an aorganization of my people, in regulating and establishing the affairs of the bstorehouse for the cpoor of my people, both in this place and in the land of dZion—
4 For a permanent and everlasting establishment and order unto my church, to advance the cause, which ye have espoused, to the salvation of man, and to the glory of your Father who is in heaven;
5 That you may be aequal in the bonds of heavenly things, yea, and earthly things also, for the obtaining of heavenly things.
6 For if ye are not equal in earthly things ye cannot be aequal in obtaining heavenly things;
7 For if you will that I give unto you a place in the acelestial world, you must bprepare yourselves by cdoing the things which I have commanded you and required of you.
8 And now, verily thus saith the Lord, it is expedient that all things be done unto my aglory, by you who are joined together in this border;
9 Or, in other words, let my servant Newel K. Whitney and my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., and my servant Sidney Rigdon sit in council with the saints which are in aZion;
10 Otherwise aSatan seeketh to turn their bhearts away from the truth, that they become cblinded and understand not the things which are prepared for them.
11 Wherefore, a commandment I give unto you, to prepare and organize yourselves by a abond or everlasting bcovenant that cannot be broken.
12 And he who breaketh it shall lose his office and standing in the church, and shall be adelivered over to the bbuffetings of Satan until the day of redemption.
13 Behold, this is the preparation wherewith I prepare you, and the foundation, and the aensample which I give unto you, whereby you may accomplish the commandments which are given you;
14 That through my providence, notwithstanding the atribulation which shall descend upon you, that the church may stand independent above all other creatures beneath the celestial world;
15 That you may come up unto the acrown prepared for you, and be made brulers over many kingdoms, saith the Lord God, the Holy One of Zion, who hath established the foundations of cAdam-ondi-Ahman;
16 Who hath appointed aMichael your prince, and established his feet, and set him upon high, and given unto him the keys of salvation under the counsel and direction of the bHoly One, who is without beginning of days or end of life.
17 Verily, verily, I say unto you, ye are alittle children, and ye have not as yet understood how great blessings the Father hath in his own hands and prepared for you;
18 And ye cannot abear all things now; nevertheless, be of good bcheer, for I will clead you along. The kingdom is yours and the blessings thereof are yours, and the driches of eeternity are yours.
19 And he who receiveth all things with athankfulness shall be made glorious; and the things of this earth shall be added unto him, even an bhundred fold, yea, more.
20 Wherefore, do the things which I have commanded you, saith your Redeemer, even the Son aAhman, who prepareth all things before he btaketh you;
21 For ye are the achurch of the bFirstborn, and he will take you up in a ccloud, and appoint every man his portion.
22 And he that is a faithful and awise bsteward shall inherit call things. Amen.