1 Verily, thus saith the Lord unto you who have assembled yourselves together to receive his will concerning you:
2 Behold, this is pleasing unto your Lord, and the angels arejoice over you; the balms of your prayers have come up into the ears of the Lord of cSabaoth, and are recorded in the dbook of the names of the sanctified, even them of the celestial world.
3 Wherefore, I now send upon you another aComforter, even upon you my friends, that it may abide in your hearts, even the Holy Spirit of bpromise; which other Comforter is the same that I promised unto my disciples, as is recorded in the testimony of John.
4 This Comforter is the apromise which I give unto you of beternal life, even the cglory of the celestial kingdom;
5 Which glory is that of the church of the aFirstborn, even of God, the holiest of all, through Jesus Christ his Son—
6 He that aascended up on high, as also he bdescended below all things, in that he ccomprehended all things, that he might be in all and through all things, the dlight of truth;
7 Which truth shineth. This is the alight of Christ. As also he is in the sun, and the light of the sun, and the power thereof by which it was bmade.
8 As also he is in the moon, and is the light of the moon, and the power thereof by which it was made;
9 As also the light of the stars, and the power thereof by which they were made;
10 And the earth also, and the power thereof, even the earth upon which you astand.
11 And the light which shineth, which giveth you light, is through him who enlighteneth your eyes, which is the same light that quickeneth your aunderstandings;
12 Which alight proceedeth forth from the presence of God to bfill the immensity of space—
13 The alight which is in all things, which giveth blife to all things, which is the claw by which all things are governed, even the dpower of God who esitteth upon his throne, who is in the bosom of eternity, who is in the midst of all things.
14 Now, verily I say unto you, that through the aredemption which is made for you is brought to pass the resurrection from the dead.
15 And the aspirit and the bbody are the csoul of man.
16 And the aresurrection from the dead is the redemption of the soul.
17 And the redemption of the soul is through him that aquickeneth all things, in whose bosom it is decreed that the bpoor and the cmeek of the dearth shall inherit it.
18 Therefore, it must needs be asanctified from all bunrighteousness, that it may be prepared for the ccelestial glory;
19 For after it hath filled the measure of its creation, it shall be crowned with aglory, even with the presence of God the Father;
20 That bodies who are of the acelestial kingdom may bpossess it forever and ever; for, for this cintent was it made and created, and for this intent are they dsanctified.
21 And they who are not asanctified through the blaw which I have given unto you, even the law of Christ, must inherit canother kingdom, even that of a terrestrial kingdom, or that of a telestial kingdom.
22 For he who is not able to abide the alaw of a celestial kingdom cannot babide a ccelestial glory.
23 And he who cannot abide the law of a aterrestrial kingdom cannot abide a terrestrial glory.
24 And he who cannot abide the law of a atelestial bkingdom cannot abide a telestial cglory; therefore he is not meet for a kingdom of glory. Therefore he must abide a kingdom which is not a kingdom of glory.
25 And again, verily I say unto you, the aearth abideth the law of a celestial kingdom, for it filleth the bmeasure of its creation, and transgresseth not the law—
26 Wherefore, it shall be asanctified; yea, notwithstanding it shall bdie, it shall be cquickened again, and shall abide the power by which it is quickened, and the drighteous shall einherit it.
27 For notwithstanding they die, they also shall arise again, a bspiritual body.
28 They who are of a celestial aspirit shall receive the same bbody which was a natural body; even ye shall receive your bodies, and your cglory shall be that glory by which your bodies are dquickened.
29 Ye who are aquickened by a portion of the bcelestial glory shall then receive of the same, even a fulness.
30 And they who are quickened by a portion of the aterrestrial glory shall then receive of the same, even a fulness.
31 And also they who are quickened by a portion of the atelestial glory shall then receive of the same, even a fulness.
32 And they who remain shall also be aquickened; nevertheless, they shall return again to their own place, to enjoy that which they are bwilling to receive, because they were not willing to enjoy that which they might have received.
33 For what doth it profit a man if a gift is bestowed upon him, and he receive not the gift? Behold, he rejoices not in that which is given unto him, neither rejoices in him who is the giver of the gift.
34 And again, verily I say unto you, that which is agoverned by law is also preserved by law and perfected and bsanctified by the same.
35 That which abreaketh a law, and babideth not by claw, but seeketh to become a law unto itself, and willeth to abide in sin, and altogether abideth in sin, cannot be sanctified by law, neither by mercy, djustice, nor ejudgment. Therefore, they must remain ffilthy still.
36 All kingdoms have a law given;
37 And there are many akingdoms; for there is no bspace in the which there is no ckingdom; and there is no kingdom in which there is no space, either a greater or a lesser kingdom.
38 And unto every kingdom is given a alaw; and unto every law there are certain bounds also and conditions.
39 All beings who abide not in those aconditions are not bjustified.
40 For aintelligence cleaveth unto intelligence; bwisdom receiveth wisdom; ctruth embraceth truth; dvirtue loveth virtue; elight cleaveth unto light; fmercy hath gcompassion on mercy and claimeth her own; hjustice continueth its course and claimeth its own; judgment goeth before the face of him who sitteth upon the throne and governeth and executeth all things.
41 He acomprehendeth all things, and all things are before him, and all things are round about him; and he is above all things, and in all things, and is through all things, and is round about all things; and all things are by him, and of him, even God, forever and ever.
42 And again, verily I say unto you, he hath given a alaw unto all things, by which they move in their btimes and their seasons;
43 And their courses are fixed, even the courses of the heavens and the earth, which comprehend the earth and all the planets.
44 And they give alight to each other in their times and in their seasons, in their minutes, in their hours, in their days, in their weeks, in their months, in their years—all these are bone year with God, but not with man.
45 The earth arolls upon her wings, and the bsun giveth his light by day, and the moon giveth her light by night, and the stars also give their light, as they roll upon their wings in their glory, in the midst of the cpower of God.
46 Unto what shall I liken these kingdoms, that ye may understand?
47 Behold, all these are akingdoms, and any man who hath bseen any or the least of these hath cseen God dmoving in his majesty and power.
48 I say unto you, he hath seen him; nevertheless, he who came unto his aown was not comprehended.
49 The alight shineth in darkness, and the darkness comprehendeth it not; nevertheless, the day shall come when you shall bcomprehend even God, being quickened in him and by him.
50 Then shall ye know that ye have aseen me, that I am, and that I am the true blight that is in you, and that you are in me; otherwise ye could not abound.
51 Behold, I will liken these kingdoms unto a man having a field, and he sent forth his servants into the field to dig in the field.
52 And he said unto the first: Go ye and labor in the field, and in the first hour I will come unto you, and ye shall behold the joy of my countenance.
53 And he said unto the second: Go ye also into the field, and in the second hour I will visit you with the joy of my countenance.
54 And also unto the third, saying: I will visit you;
55 And unto the fourth, and so on unto the twelfth.
56 And the lord of the field went unto the first in the first hour, and tarried with him all that hour, and he was made glad with the light of the countenance of his lord.
57 And then he withdrew from the first that he might visit the second also, and the third, and the fourth, and so on unto the twelfth.
58 And thus they all received the light of the countenance of their lord, every man in his hour, and in his time, and in his season—
59 Beginning at the first, and so on unto the alast, and from the last unto the first, and from the first unto the last;
60 Every man in his own aorder, until his hour was finished, even according as his lord had commanded him, that his lord might be glorified in him, and he in his lord, that they all might be glorified.
61 Therefore, unto this parable I will liken all these akingdoms, and the binhabitants thereof—every kingdom in its hour, and in its time, and in its season, even according to the decree which God hath made.
62 And again, verily I say unto you, my afriends, I leave these bsayings with you to cponder in your hearts, with this commandment which I give unto you, that ye shall dcall upon me while I am near—
63 aDraw bnear unto me and I will draw near unto you; cseek me diligently and ye shall dfind me; ask, and ye shall receive; knock, and it shall be opened unto you.
64 Whatsoever ye aask the Father in my name it shall be given unto you, that is bexpedient for you;
65 And if ye ask anything that is not aexpedient for you, it shall turn unto your bcondemnation.
66 Behold, that which you hear is as the avoice of one crying in the wilderness—in the wilderness, because you cannot see him—my voice, because my voice is bSpirit; my Spirit is truth; ctruth abideth and hath no end; and if it be in you it shall abound.
67 And if your eye be asingle to my bglory, your whole bodies shall be filled with light, and there shall be no darkness in you; and that body which is filled with light ccomprehendeth all things.
68 Therefore, asanctify yourselves that your bminds become csingle to God, and the days will come that you shall dsee him; for he will unveil his face unto you, and it shall be in his own time, and in his own way, and according to his own will.
69 Remember the great and last promise which I have made unto you; cast away your aidle thoughts and your bexcess of claughter far from you.
70 Tarry ye, tarry ye in this place, and call a asolemn assembly, even of those who are the first blaborers in this last kingdom.
71 And let those whom they have warned in their traveling call on the Lord, and aponder the bwarning in their hearts which they have received, for a little season.
72 Behold, and lo, I will take care of your aflocks, and will raise up elders and send unto them.
73 Behold, I will ahasten my work in its time.
74 And I give unto you, who are the first alaborers in this last kingdom, a commandment that you assemble yourselves together, and organize yourselves, and prepare yourselves, and bsanctify yourselves; yea, purify your hearts, and ccleanse your hands and your feet before me, that I may make you dclean;
75 That I may testify unto your aFather, and your God, and my bGod, that you are clean from the cblood of this wicked generation; that I may fulfil this promise, this great and last dpromise, which I have made unto you, when I will.
76 Also, I give unto you a commandment that ye shall continue in aprayer and fasting from this time forth.
77 And I give unto you a commandment that you shall ateach one another the bdoctrine of the kingdom.
78 Teach ye diligently and my agrace shall attend you, that you may be binstructed more perfectly in theory, in principle, in doctrine, in the law of the gospel, in all things that pertain unto the kingdom of God, that are expedient for you to understand;
79 Of things both in aheaven and in the earth, and under the earth; things which have been, things which are, things which must bshortly come to pass; things which are at home, things which are abroad; the wars and the perplexities of the cnations, and the judgments which are on the land; and a dknowledge also of countries and of kingdoms—
80 That ye may be prepared in all things when I shall send you again to amagnify the calling whereunto I have called you, and the bmission with which I have commissioned you.
81 Behold, I sent you out to atestify and warn the people, and it becometh every man who hath been warned to bwarn his neighbor.
82 Therefore, they are left awithout excuse, and their sins are upon their bown heads.
83 He that aseeketh me bearly shall find me, and shall not be forsaken.
84 Therefore, tarry ye, and labor diligently, that you may be perfected in your ministry to go forth among the aGentiles for the last time, as many as the mouth of the Lord shall name, to bbind up the law and cseal up the testimony, and to prepare the saints for the hour of judgment which is to come;
85 That their souls may escape the wrath of God, the adesolation of abomination which awaits the wicked, both in this world and in the world to come. Verily, I say unto you, let those who are not the bfirst elders continue in the vineyard until the mouth of the Lord shall ccall them, for their time is not yet come; their garments are not dclean from the blood of this generation.
86 Abide ye in the aliberty wherewith ye are made bfree; centangle not yourselves in dsin, but let your hands be eclean, until the Lord comes.
87 For not many days hence and the aearth shall btremble and reel to and fro as a drunken man; and the csun shall dhide his face, and shall refuse to give light; and the moon shall be bathed in eblood; and the stars shall become exceedingly angry, and shall fcast themselves down as a fig that falleth from off a fig tree.
88 And after your atestimony cometh wrath and indignation upon the people.
89 For after your testimony cometh the testimony of aearthquakes, that shall cause groanings in the midst of her, and men shall fall upon the ground and shall not be able to stand.
90 And also cometh the testimony of the avoice of thunderings, and the voice of lightnings, and the voice of tempests, and the voice of the waves of the sea heaving themselves beyond their bounds.
91 And all things shall be in acommotion; and surely, men’s bhearts shall fail them; for fear shall come upon all people.
92 And aangels shall fly through the midst of heaven, crying with a loud voice, sounding the trump of God, saying: Prepare ye, prepare ye, O inhabitants of the earth; for the bjudgment of our God is come. Behold, and lo, the cBridegroom cometh; go ye out to meet him.
93 And immediately there shall appear a agreat sign in heaven, and all people shall see it together.
94 And another angel shall sound his trump, saying: That agreat bchurch, the cmother of abominations, that made all nations drink of the wine of the wrath of her dfornication, that epersecuteth the saints of God, that shed their blood—she who sitteth upon many waters, and upon the islands of the sea—behold, she is the ftares of the earth; she is bound in bundles; her bands are made strong, no man can loose them; therefore, she is ready to be burned. And he shall sound his trump both long and loud, and all nations shall hear it.
95 And there shall be asilence in bheaven for the space of half an hour; and immediately after shall the curtain of heaven be unfolded, as a cscroll is unfolded after it is rolled up, and the dface of the Lord shall be unveiled;
96 And the saints that are upon the earth, who are alive, shall be quickened and be acaught up to meet him.
97 And they who have slept in their graves shall acome forth, for their graves shall be opened; and they also shall be caught up to meet him in the midst of the bpillar of heaven—
98 They are Christ’s, the afirst fruits, they who shall descend with him first, and they who are on the earth and in their graves, who are first caught up to meet him; and all this by the voice of the sounding of the trump of the angel of God.
99 And after this another angel shall sound, which is the second trump; and then cometh the redemption of those who are Christ’s at his acoming; who have received their part in that bprison which is prepared for them, that they might receive the gospel, and be cjudged according to men in the flesh.
100 And again, another trump shall sound, which is the third trump; and then come the aspirits of men who are to be judged, and are found under bcondemnation;
101 And these are the rest of the adead; and they live not again until the bthousand years are ended, neither again, until the end of the earth.
102 And another trump shall sound, which is the fourth trump, saying: There are found among those who are to remain until that great and last day, even the end, who shall aremain bfilthy still.
103 And another trump shall sound, which is the fifth trump, which is the fifth angel who committeth the aeverlasting gospel—flying through the midst of heaven, unto all nations, kindreds, tongues, and people;
104 And this shall be the sound of his trump, saying to all people, both in heaven and in earth, and that are under the earth—for aevery ear shall hear it, and every knee shall bbow, and every tongue shall confess, while they hear the sound of the trump, saying: cFear God, and give glory to him who sitteth upon the throne, dforever and ever; for the hour of his judgment is come.
105 And again, another angel shall sound his trump, which is the sixth angel, saying: She is afallen who made all nations drink of the wine of the wrath of her fornication; she is fallen, is fallen!
106 And again, another angel shall sound his trump, which is the seventh angel, saying: It is finished; it is finished! The aLamb of God hath bovercome and ctrodden the wine-press alone, even the wine-press of the fierceness of the wrath of Almighty God.
107 And then shall the angels be crowned with the glory of his might, and the asaints shall be filled with his bglory, and receive their cinheritance and be made dequal with him.
108 And then shall the first angel again sound his trump in the ears of all living, and areveal the secret acts of men, and the mighty works of God in the bfirst thousand years.
109 And then shall the second angel sound his trump, and reveal the secret acts of men, and the thoughts and intents of their hearts, and the mighty aworks of God in the second thousand years—
110 And so on, until the seventh angel shall sound his trump; and he shall astand forth upon the land and upon the sea, and bswear in the name of him who sitteth upon the throne, that there shall be ctime no longer; and dSatan shall be bound, that old serpent, who is called the devil, and shall not be loosed for the space of a ethousand years.
111 And then he shall be aloosed for a little season, that he may gather together his armies.
112 And aMichael, the seventh angel, even the archangel, shall gather together his armies, even the hosts of heaven.
113 And the devil shall gather together his aarmies; even the hosts of hell, and shall come up to battle against Michael and his armies.
114 And then cometh the abattle of the great God; and the devil and his armies shall be bcast away into their own place, that they shall not have power over the saints any more at all.
115 For Michael shall fight their battles, and shall overcome him who aseeketh the throne of him who sitteth upon the throne, even the Lamb.
116 This is the glory of God, and the asanctified; and they shall not any more see bdeath.
117 Therefore, verily I say unto you, my afriends, call your solemn assembly, as I have bcommanded you.
118 And as all have not afaith, seek ye diligently and bteach one another words of cwisdom; yea, seek ye out of the best dbooks words of wisdom; seek learning, even by study and also by faith.
119 aOrganize yourselves; prepare every needful thing; and establish a bhouse, even a house of prayer, a house of fasting, a house of faith, a house of learning, a house of glory, a house of order, a house of God;
120 That your aincomings may be in the name of the Lord; that your outgoings may be in the name of the Lord; that all your salutations may be in the name of the Lord, with buplifted hands unto the Most High.
121 Therefore, acease from all your light speeches, from all blaughter, from all your clustful desires, from all your dpride and light-mindedness, and from all your wicked doings.
122 Appoint among yourselves a teacher, and let anot all be spokesmen at once; but let one speak at a time and let all listen unto his sayings, that when all have spoken that all may be bedified of all, and that every man may have an equal privilege.
123 See that ye alove one another; cease to be bcovetous; learn to impart one to another as the gospel requires.
124 Cease to be aidle; cease to be bunclean; cease to cfind fault one with another; cease to dsleep longer than is needful; retire to thy bed early, that ye may not be weary; arise early, that your bodies and your minds may be einvigorated.
125 And above all things, clothe yourselves with the bond of acharity, as with a mantle, which is the bond of perfectness and bpeace.
126 aPray always, that ye may not faint, until I bcome. Behold, and lo, I will come quickly, and receive you unto myself. Amen.
127 And again, the order of the house prepared for the apresidency of the bschool of the cprophets, established for their instruction in all things that are expedient for them, even for all the dofficers of the church, or in other words, those who are called to the ministry in the church, beginning at the high priests, even down to the deacons—
128 And this shall be the order of the house of the presidency of the school: He that is appointed to be president, or teacher, shall be found standing in his place, in the house which shall be prepared for him.
129 Therefore, he shall be first in the house of God, in a place that the congregation in the house may hear his words carefully and distinctly, not with loud speech.
130 And when he cometh into the house of God, for he should be first in the house—behold, this is abeautiful, that he may be an bexample—
131 Let him offer himself in prayer upon his knees before God, in atoken or remembrance of the everlasting covenant.
132 And when any shall come in after him, let the teacher arise, and, with auplifted hands to heaven, yea, even directly, salute his brother or brethren with these words:
133 Art thou a brother or brethren? I salute you in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, in token or remembrance of the everlasting covenant, in which covenant I receive you to afellowship, in a determination that is fixed, immovable, and unchangeable, to be your bfriend and cbrother through the grace of God in the bonds of love, to walk in all the commandments of God blameless, in thanksgiving, forever and ever. Amen.
134 And he that is found aunworthy of this salutation shall not have place among you; for ye shall not suffer that mine house shall be bpolluted by him.
135 And he that cometh in and is faithful before me, and is a brother, or if they be brethren, they shall salute the president or teacher with uplifted hands to heaven, with this same prayer and covenant, or by saying Amen, in token of the same.
136 Behold, verily, I say unto you, this is an ensample unto you for a salutation to one another in the house of God, in the school of the prophets.
137 And ye are called to do this by prayer and thanksgiving, as the Spirit shall give utterance in all your doings in the house of the Lord, in the school of the prophets, that it may become a sanctuary, a tabernacle of the Holy Spirit to your aedification.
138 And ye shall not receive any among you into this school save he is clean from the ablood of this generation;
139 And he shall be received by the ordinance of the awashing of feet, for unto this end was the ordinance of the washing of feet instituted.
140 And again, the ordinance of washing feet is to be administered by the president, or presiding elder of the church.
141 It is to be commenced with prayer; and after partaking of abread and wine, he is to gird himself according to the bpattern given in the thirteenth chapter of John’s testimony concerning me. Amen.