1 Verily thus saith the Lord unto you, my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., and also my servant Sidney Rigdon, and also my servant Hyrum Smith, and your acounselors who are and shall be appointed hereafter;
2 And also unto you, my servant aEdward Partridge, and his counselors;
3 And also unto my faithful servants who are of the high council of my achurch in Zion, for thus it shall be called, and unto all the elders and people of my Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, scattered abroad in all the world;
4 For thus shall amy bchurch be called in the last days, even The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day cSaints.
5 Verily I say unto you all: aArise and shine forth, that thy blight may be a cstandard for the dnations;
6 And that the agathering together upon the land of bZion, and upon her cstakes, may be for a defense, and for a drefuge from the storm, and from wrath when it shall be epoured out without mixture upon the whole earth.
7 Let the city, Far West, be a holy and consecrated land unto me; and it shall be called most holy, for the ground upon which thou standest is aholy.
8 Therefore, I command you to abuild a house unto me, for the gathering together of my saints, that they may bworship me.
9 And let there be a beginning of this work, and a foundation, and a preparatory work, this following summer;
10 And let the beginning be made on the fourth day of July next; and from that time forth let my people alabor diligently to build a house unto my name;
11 And in aone year from this day let them re-commence laying the foundation of my bhouse.
12 Thus let them from that time forth labor diligently until it shall be finished, from the cornerstone thereof unto the top thereof, until there shall not anything remain that is not finished.
13 Verily I say unto you, let not my servant Joseph, neither my servant Sidney, neither my servant Hyrum, get in adebt any more for the building of a house unto my name;
14 But let a house be built unto my name according to the apattern which I will show unto them.
15 And if my people build it not according to the pattern which I shall show unto their presidency, I will not accept it at their hands.
16 But if my people do build it according to the pattern which I shall show unto their presidency, even my servant Joseph and his counselors, then I will accept it at the hands of my people.
17 And again, verily I say unto you, it is my will that the city of Far West should be built up speedily by the gathering of my saints;
18 And also that other places should be appointed for astakes in the regions round about, as they shall be manifested unto my servant Joseph, from time to time.
19 For behold, I will be with him, and I will sanctify him before the people; for unto him have I given the akeys of this kingdom and ministry. Even so. Amen.