1 The aveil was taken from our minds, and the beyes of our cunderstanding were opened.
2 We asaw the Lord bstanding upon the breastwork of the pulpit, before us; and under his feet was a paved work of pure cgold, in color like amber.
3 His aeyes were as a flame of fire; the hair of his head was white like the pure snow; his bcountenance shone above the brightness of the sun; and his cvoice was as the sound of the rushing of great waters, even the voice of dJehovah, saying:
4 I am the afirst and the last; I am he who bliveth, I am he who was slain; I am your cadvocate with the Father.
5 Behold, your sins are aforgiven you; you are clean before me; therefore, lift up your heads and brejoice.
6 Let the hearts of your brethren rejoice, and let the hearts of all my people rejoice, who have, with their might, abuilt this house to my name.
7 For behold, I have aaccepted this bhouse, and my name shall be here; and I will cmanifest myself to my people in mercy in this house.
8 Yea, I will aappear unto my servants, and speak unto them with mine own voice, if my people will keep my commandments, and do not bpollute this choly house.
9 Yea the hearts of thousands and tens of thousands shall greatly rejoice in consequence of the ablessings which shall be poured out, and the bendowment with which my servants have been endowed in this house.
10 And the fame of this house shall spread to foreign lands; and this is the beginning of the blessing which shall be apoured out upon the heads of my people. Even so. Amen.
11 After this avision closed, the heavens were again bopened unto us; and cMoses appeared before us, and committed unto us the dkeys of the egathering of Israel from the four parts of the earth, and the leading of the ten tribes from the land of the fnorth.
12 After this, aElias appeared, and committed the bdispensation of the cgospel of Abraham, saying that in us and our seed all dgenerations after us should be eblessed.
13 After this vision had closed, another great and glorious avision burst upon us; for bElijah the prophet, who was taken to heaven without tasting death, stood before us, and said:
14 Behold, the time has fully come, which was spoken of by the mouth of Malachi—testifying that he [Elijah] should be sent, before the great and dreadful day of the Lord come—
15 To aturn the bhearts of the fathers to the children, and the children to the fathers, lest the whole earth be smitten with a curse—
16 Therefore, the akeys of this bdispensation are committed into your hands; and by this ye may know that the great and dreadful cday of the Lord is near, even at the doors.