1 Hearken unto the voice of the Lord your God, while I speak unto you, Emma Smith, my daughter; for verily I say unto you, all those who areceive my gospel are sons and daughters in my bkingdom.
2 A revelation I give unto you concerning my will; and if thou art faithful and awalk in the paths of bvirtue before me, I will preserve thy life, and thou shalt receive an cinheritance in Zion.
3 Behold, thy asins are forgiven thee, and thou art an belect clady, whom I have dcalled.
4 aMurmur not because of the bthings which thou hast not seen, for they are cwithheld from thee and from the world, which is wisdom in me in a time to come.
5 And the office of thy calling shall be for a acomfort unto my servant, Joseph Smith, Jun., thy bhusband, in his cafflictions, with consoling words, in the spirit of dmeekness.
6 And thou shalt go with him at the time of his going, and be unto him for a scribe, while there is no one to be a scribe for him, that I may send my servant, Oliver Cowdery, whithersoever I will.
7 And thou shalt be aordained under his hand to expound scriptures, and to exhort the church, according as it shall be given thee by my bSpirit.
8 For he shall lay his ahands upon thee, and thou shalt receive the Holy Ghost, and thy time shall be given to writing, and to learning much.
9 And thou needest not fear, for thy ahusband shall support thee in the church; for unto them is his bcalling, that all things might be crevealed unto them, whatsoever I will, according to their faith.
10 And verily I say unto thee that thou shalt lay aside the athings of this bworld, and cseek for the things of a dbetter.
11 And it shall be given thee, also, to make a selection of asacred bhymns, as it shall be given thee, which is pleasing unto me, to be had in my church.
12 For my soul adelighteth in the bsong of the cheart; yea, the dsong of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads.
13 Wherefore, alift up thy heart and brejoice, and cleave unto the covenants which thou hast made.
14 Continue in the spirit of meekness, and beware of apride. Let thy soul delight in thy bhusband, and the cglory which shall come upon him.
15 Keep my commandments continually, and a acrown of brighteousness thou shalt receive. And except thou do this, where I am you ccannot come.
16 And verily, verily, I say unto you, that this is my avoice unto all. Amen.