1 Behold and hearken, O ye aelders of my church, who have assembled yourselves together, whose bprayers I have heard, and whose chearts I know, and whose desires have come up before me.
2 Behold and lo, mine aeyes are upon you, and the heavens and the earth are in mine bhands, and the riches of eternity are mine to give.
3 Ye endeavored to abelieve that ye should receive the blessing which was offered unto you; but behold, verily I say unto you there were bfears in your hearts, and verily this is the reason that ye did not receive.
4 And now I, the Lord, give unto you a atestimony of the truth of these commandments which are lying before you.
5 Your eyes have been upon my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., and his alanguage you have known, and his imperfections you have known; and you have sought in your hearts knowledge that you might express beyond his language; this you also know.
6 Now, seek ye out of the Book of Commandments, even the least that is among them, and appoint him that is the most awise among you;
7 Or, if there be any among you that shall make one alike unto it, then ye are justified in saying that ye do not know that they are true;
8 But if ye cannot make one like unto it, ye are under condemnation if ye do not abear record that they are true.
9 For ye know that there is no unrighteousness in them, and that which is arighteous cometh down from above, from the Father of blights.
10 And again, verily I say unto you that it is your privilege, and a apromise I give unto you that have been ordained unto this ministry, that inasmuch as you bstrip yourselves from cjealousies and dfears, and ehumble yourselves before me, for ye are not sufficiently humble, the fveil shall be rent and you shall gsee me and know that I am—not with the carnal neither natural mind, but with the spiritual.
11 For no aman has seen God at any time in the flesh, except quickened by the Spirit of God.
12 Neither can any anatural man abide the presence of God, neither after the carnal mind.
13 Ye are not able to abide the presence of God now, neither the ministering of angels; wherefore, acontinue in patience until ye are bperfected.
14 Let not your minds aturn back; and when ye are bworthy, in mine own due time, ye shall see and know that which was conferred upon you by the hands of my servant Joseph Smith, Jun. Amen.