1 Hearken, O ye people of my church, saith the Lord your God, and hear the word of the Lord concerning you—
2 The Lord who shall suddenly acome to his temple; the Lord who shall come down upon the world with a curse to bjudgment; yea, upon all the nations that cforget God, and upon all the ungodly among you.
3 For he shall make abare his holy arm in the eyes of all the nations, and all the ends of the earth shall see the bsalvation of their God.
4 Wherefore, prepare ye, prepare ye, O my people; sanctify yourselves; gather ye together, O ye people of my church, upon the land of Zion, all you that have not been commanded to atarry.
5 Go ye out from aBabylon. Be ye bclean that bear the vessels of the Lord.
6 Call your asolemn assemblies, and bspeak often one to another. And let every man call upon the name of the Lord.
7 Yea, verily I say unto you again, the time has come when the voice of the Lord is unto you: Go ye out of Babylon; agather ye out from among the nations, from the bfour winds, from one end of heaven to the other.
8 Send forth the elders of my church unto the anations which are afar off; unto the bislands of the sea; send forth unto foreign lands; call upon all nations, first upon the cGentiles, and then upon the Jews.
9 And behold, and lo, this shall be their cry, and the voice of the Lord unto all people: Go ye forth unto the land of Zion, that the borders of my people may be enlarged, and that her astakes may be strengthened, and that bZion may go forth unto the regions round about.
10 Yea, let the cry go forth among all people: Awake and arise and go forth to meet the aBridegroom; behold and lo, the Bridegroom cometh; go ye out to meet him. Prepare yourselves for the bgreat day of the Lord.
11 aWatch, therefore, for ye bknow neither the day nor the hour.
12 Let them, therefore, who are aamong the Gentiles flee unto bZion.
13 And let them who be of aJudah flee unto bJerusalem, unto the cmountains of the Lord’s dhouse.
14 Go ye aout from among the nations, even from bBabylon, from the midst of cwickedness, which is spiritual Babylon.
15 But verily, thus saith the Lord, let not your flight be in ahaste, but let all things be prepared before you; and he that goeth, let him bnot look back lest sudden destruction shall come upon him.
16 Hearken and hear, O ye inhabitants of the earth. aListen, ye elders of my church together, and hear the voice of the Lord; for he calleth upon all men, and he commandeth all men everywhere to brepent.
17 For behold, the Lord God hath asent forth the angel crying through the midst of heaven, saying: Prepare ye the way of the Lord, and make his paths straight, for the hour of his bcoming is nigh—
18 When the aLamb shall stand upon bMount Zion, and with him a chundred and forty-four thousand, having his Father’s name written on their foreheads.
19 Wherefore, prepare ye for the acoming of the Bridegroom; go ye, go ye out to meet him.
20 For behold, he shall astand upon the mount of Olivet, and upon the mighty ocean, even the great deep, and upon the islands of the sea, and upon the land of Zion.
21 And he shall autter his voice out of bZion, and he shall speak from Jerusalem, and his cvoice shall be heard among all people;
22 And it shall be a voice as the avoice of many waters, and as the voice of a great bthunder, which shall cbreak down the mountains, and the valleys shall not be found.
23 He shall command the great deep, and it shall be driven back into the north countries, and the aislands shall become one land;
24 And the aland of Jerusalem and the land of bZion shall be turned back into their own place, and the cearth shall be like as it was in the days before it was ddivided.
25 And the Lord, even the Savior, shall astand in the midst of his people, and shall breign over all flesh.
26 And they who are in the anorth countries shall come in remembrance before the Lord; and their prophets shall hear his voice, and shall no longer stay themselves; and they shall bsmite the rocks, and the ice shall flow down at their presence.
27 And an ahighway shall be cast up in the midst of the great deep.
28 Their enemies shall become a prey unto them,
29 And in the abarren deserts there shall come forth pools of bliving water; and the parched ground shall no longer be a thirsty land.
30 And they shall bring forth their rich atreasures unto the children of Ephraim, my servants.
31 And the boundaries of the everlasting ahills shall tremble at their presence.
32 And there shall they fall down and be acrowned with glory, even in Zion, by the hands of the servants of the Lord, even the children of bEphraim.
33 And they shall be filled with asongs of everlasting joy.
34 Behold, this is the ablessing of the beverlasting God upon the ctribes of dIsrael, and the richer blessing upon the head of eEphraim and his fellows.
35 And they also of the tribe of aJudah, after their pain, shall be bsanctified in choliness before the Lord, to dwell in his dpresence day and night, forever and ever.
36 And now, verily saith the Lord, that these things might be known among you, O inhabitants of the earth, I have sent forth mine aangel flying through the midst of heaven, having the everlasting bgospel, who hath appeared unto some and hath committed it unto man, who shall appear unto cmany that dwell on the earth.
37 And this agospel shall be bpreached unto cevery nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people.
38 And the aservants of God shall go forth, saying with a loud voice: Fear God and give glory to him, for the hour of his judgment is come;
39 And aworship him that made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and the bfountains of waters—
40 Calling upon the name of the Lord day and night, saying: O that thou wouldst arend the heavens, that thou wouldst come down, that the mountains might flow down at thy presence.
41 And it shall be answered upon their heads; for the presence of the Lord shall be aas the melting fire that burneth, and as the fire which causeth the waters to boil.
42 O Lord, thou shalt come down to make thy name known to thine adversaries, and all nations shall tremble at thy presence—
43 When thou doest aterrible things, things they look not for;
44 Yea, when thou comest down, and the mountains flow down at thy presence, thou shalt ameet him who rejoiceth and worketh righteousness, who remembereth thee in thy ways.
45 For since the beginning of the world have not men heard nor perceived by the ear, neither hath any eye seen, O God, besides thee, how great things thou hast aprepared for him that bwaiteth for thee.
46 And it shall be said: aWho is this that cometh down from God in heaven with dyed bgarments; yea, from the regions which are not known, clothed in his glorious apparel, traveling in the greatness of his strength?
47 And he shall say: aI am he who spake in brighteousness, mighty to save.
48 And the Lord shall be ared in his apparel, and his garments like him that treadeth in the wine-vat.
49 And so great shall be the glory of his presence that the asun shall hide his face in shame, and the moon shall withhold its light, and the stars shall be hurled from their places.
50 And his avoice shall be heard: I have btrodden the wine-press alone, and have brought judgment upon all people; and none were with me;
51 And I have atrampled them in my fury, and I did tread upon them in mine anger, and their blood have I bsprinkled upon my garments, and stained all my raiment; for this was the cday of vengeance which was in my heart.
52 And now the year of my aredeemed is come; and they shall mention the loving kindness of their Lord, and all that he has bestowed upon them according to his bgoodness, and according to his loving kindness, forever and ever.
53 In all their aafflictions he was afflicted. And the angel of his presence saved them; and in his blove, and in his pity, he credeemed them, and bore them, and carried them all the days of old;
54 Yea, and aEnoch also, and they who were with him; the prophets who were before him; and bNoah also, and they who were before him; and cMoses also, and they who were before him;
55 And from aMoses to Elijah, and from Elijah to John, who were with Christ in his bresurrection, and the holy apostles, with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, shall be in the presence of the Lamb.
56 And the agraves of the bsaints shall be copened; and they shall come forth and stand on the dright hand of the Lamb, when he shall stand upon eMount Zion, and upon the holy city, the New Jerusalem; and they shall fsing the gsong of the hLamb, day and night forever and ever.
57 And for this cause, that men might be made apartakers of the bglories which were to be revealed, the Lord sent forth the fulness of his cgospel, his everlasting covenant, reasoning in plainness and simplicity—
58 To aprepare the bweak for those things which are coming on the earth, and for the Lord’s errand in the day when the weak shall cconfound the dwise, and the little one become a estrong fnation, and two shall put their tens of thousands to gflight.
59 And by the weak things of the earth the Lord shall athresh the nations by the power of his Spirit.
60 And for this cause these commandments were given; they were commanded to be kept from the world in the day that they were given, but now are to ago forth unto ball flesh—
61 And this according to the mind and will of the Lord, who ruleth over all flesh.
62 And unto him that repenteth and asanctifieth himself before the Lord shall be given eternal life.
63 And upon them that ahearken not to the voice of the Lord shall be fulfilled that which was written by the prophet Moses, that they should be bcut off from among the people.
64 And also that which was written by the prophet aMalachi: For, behold, the bday cometh that shall cburn as an oven, and all the proud, yea, and all that do dwickedly, shall be stubble; and the day that cometh shall burn them up, saith the Lord of hosts, that it shall leave them neither root nor branch.
65 Wherefore, this shall be the answer of the Lord unto them:
66 In that day when I came unto mine own, no man among you areceived me, and you were driven out.
67 When I called again there was none of you to answer; yet my aarm was not shortened at all that I could not redeem, neither my bpower to deliver.
68 Behold, at my rebuke I adry up the sea. I make the rivers a wilderness; their fish stink, and die for thirst.
69 I clothe the heavens with blackness, and make sackcloth their covering.
70 And athis shall ye have of my hand—ye shall lie down in sorrow.
71 Behold, and lo, there are none to deliver you; for ye aobeyed not my voice when I called to you out of the heavens; ye bbelieved not my servants, and when they were csent unto you ye received them not.
72 Wherefore, they sealed up the testimony and bound up the law, and ye were delivered over unto adarkness.
73 These shall go away into outer darkness, where there is aweeping, and wailing, and gnashing of teeth.
74 Behold the Lord your God hath spoken it. Amen.