1 Listen to the voice of the aLord your God, even bAlpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, whose ccourse is one deternal round, the esame today as yesterday, and forever.
2 I am Jesus Christ, the Son of God, who was acrucified for the sins of the world, even as many as will bbelieve on my name, that they may become the csons of God, even done in eme as I am fone in the Father, as the Father is one in me, that we may be one.
3 Behold, verily, verily, I say unto my servant Sidney, I have looked upon thee and thy works. I have aheard thy prayers, and prepared thee for a greater work.
4 Thou art blessed, for thou shalt do great things. Behold thou wast sent forth, even as aJohn, to prepare the way before me, and before bElijah which should come, and thou knewest it not.
5 Thou didst baptize by water unto repentance, but they areceived not the Holy Ghost;
6 But now I give unto thee a commandment, that thou shalt abaptize by water, and they shall receive the bHoly Ghost by the laying on of the chands, even as the apostles of old.
7 And it shall come to pass that there shall be a great work in the land, even among the aGentiles, for their bfolly and their abominations shall be made manifest in the eyes of all people.
8 For I am God, and mine arm is not ashortened; and I will show bmiracles, csigns, and wonders, unto all those who dbelieve on my name.
9 And whoso shall ask it in my name in afaith, they shall bcast out cdevils; they shall heal the dsick; they shall cause the blind to receive their esight, and the deaf to hear, and the dumb to speak, and the lame to walk.
10 And the time aspeedily cometh that great things are to be shown forth unto the children of men;
11 But awithout faith shall not anything be shown forth except bdesolations upon cBabylon, the same which has made dall nations drink of the wine of the wrath of her efornication.
12 And there are anone that doeth good except those who are ready to breceive the fulness of my gospel, which I have sent forth unto this generation.
13 Wherefore, I call upon the aweak things of the world, those who are bunlearned and despised, to thresh the cnations by the power of my dSpirit;
14 And their arm shall be my arm, and I will be their ashield and their buckler; and I will gird up their loins, and they shall fight manfully for me; and their benemies shall be under their feet; and I will let cfall the dsword in their behalf, and by the efire of mine indignation will I preserve them.
15 And the apoor and the bmeek shall have the gospel preached unto them, and they shall be clooking forth for the time of my coming, for it is dnigh at hand—
16 And they shall learn the parable of the afig tree, for even now already summer is nigh.
17 And I have sent forth the afulness of my gospel by the hand of my servant Joseph; and in weakness have I blessed him;
18 And I have given unto him the akeys of the mystery of those things which have been bsealed, even things which were from the cfoundation of the world, and the things which shall come from this time until the time of my coming, if he dabide in me, and if not, eanother will I plant in his stead.
19 Wherefore, watch over him that his faith fail not, and it shall be given by the aComforter, the bHoly Ghost, that knoweth all things.
20 And a commandment I give unto thee—that thou shalt awrite for him; and the bscriptures shall be given, even as they are in mine own bosom, to the salvation of mine own celect;
21 For they will hear my avoice, and shall bsee me, and shall not be casleep, and shall dabide the day of my ecoming; for they shall be fpurified, even as I am pure.
22 And now I say unto you, atarry with him, and he shall journey with you; forsake him not, and surely these things shall be fulfilled.
23 And ainasmuch as ye do not write, behold, it shall be bgiven unto him to prophesy; and thou shalt preach my gospel and call on cthe holy prophets to prove his words, as they shall be given him.
24 aKeep all the commandments and covenants by which ye are bound; and I will cause the heavens to bshake for your cgood, and dSatan shall tremble and eZion shall frejoice upon the hills and gflourish;
25 And aIsrael shall be bsaved in mine own due time; and by the ckeys which I have given shall they be led, and no more be confounded at all.
26 aLift up your hearts and be glad, your bredemption draweth nigh.
27 Fear not, little aflock, the bkingdom is yours until I come. Behold, I ccome quickly. Even so. Amen.