1 Behold, I say unto you, my son, that because you did not atranslate according to that which you desired of me, and did commence again to bwrite for my servant, Joseph Smith, Jun., even so I would that ye should continue until you have finished this record, which I have entrusted unto him.
2 And then, behold, aother brecords have I, that I will give unto you power that you may assist to ctranslate.
3 Be patient, my son, for it is awisdom in me, and it is not expedient that you should translate at this present time.
4 Behold, the work which you are called to do is to awrite for my servant Joseph.
5 And, behold, it is because that you did not continue as you commenced, when you began to translate, that I have taken away this privilege from you.
6 Do not amurmur, my son, for it is wisdom in me that I have dealt with you after this manner.
7 Behold, you have not understood; you have supposed that I would give it unto you, when you took no thought save it was to ask me.
8 But, behold, I say unto you, that you must astudy it out in your bmind; then you must cask me if it be right, and if it is right I will cause that your dbosom shall eburn within you; therefore, you shall ffeel that it is right.
9 But if it be not right you shall have no such feelings, but you shall have a astupor of thought that shall cause you to forget the thing which is wrong; therefore, you cannot write that which is bsacred save it be given you from me.
10 Now, if you had known this you could have atranslated; nevertheless, it is not expedient that you should translate now.
11 Behold, it was expedient when you commenced; but you afeared, and the time is past, and it is not expedient now;
12 For, do you not behold that I have agiven unto my servant bJoseph sufficient strength, whereby it is made up? And neither of you have I condemned.
13 Do this thing which I have commanded you, and you shall aprosper. Be faithful, and yield to no btemptation.
14 Stand fast in the awork wherewith I have bcalled you, and a hair of your head shall not be lost, and you shall be clifted up at the last day. Amen.