1 Behold, I say unto you, David, that you have afeared man and have not brelied on me for strength as you ought.
2 But your mind has been on the things of the aearth more than on the things of me, your Maker, and the ministry whereunto you have been called; and you have not given heed unto my bSpirit, and to those who were set over you, but have been persuaded by those whom I have not commanded.
3 Wherefore, you are left to inquire for yourself at my hand, and aponder upon the things which you have received.
4 And your home shall be at your afather’s house, until I give unto you further commandments. And you shall attend to the bministry in the church, and before the world, and in the regions round about. Amen.
5 Behold, I say unto you, Peter, that you shall take your ajourney with your brother Oliver; for the btime has come that it is expedient in me that you shall open your mouth to declare my gospel; therefore, fear not, but give cheed unto the words and advice of your brother, which he shall give you.
6 And be you afflicted in all his aafflictions, ever blifting up your heart unto me in prayer and faith, for his and your cdeliverance; for I have given unto him power to dbuild up my echurch among the fLamanites;
7 And none have I appointed to be his counselor aover him in the church, concerning church matters, except it is his brother, Joseph Smith, Jun.
8 Wherefore, give heed unto these things and be diligent in keeping my commandments, and you shall be blessed unto eternal life. Amen.
9 Behold, I say unto you, my servant John, that thou shalt commence from this time forth to aproclaim my gospel, as with the bvoice of a trump.
10 And your labor shall be at your brother Philip Burroughs’, and in that region round about, yea, wherever you can be heard, until I command you to go from hence.
11 And your whole labor shall be in Zion, with all your soul, from henceforth; yea, you shall ever open your mouth in my cause, not afearing what bman can do, for I am cwith you. Amen.