1 aAnd then will I sing to my well-beloved a song of my beloved, touching his bvineyard. My well-beloved hath a vineyard in a very fruitful hill.
2 And he fenced it, and gathered out the stones thereof, and planted it with the choicest avine, and built a tower in the midst of it, and also made a wine-press therein; and he looked that it should bring forth grapes, and it brought forth wild grapes.
3 And now, O inhabitants of Jerusalem, and men of Judah, judge, I pray you, betwixt me and my vineyard.
4 What could have been done more to my vineyard that I have not done in it? Wherefore, when I looked that it should bring forth grapes it brought forth wild grapes.
5 And now go to; I will tell you what I will do to my vineyard—I will atake away the hedge thereof, and it shall be eaten up; and I will break down the wall thereof, and it shall be trodden down;
6 And I will lay it waste; it shall not be pruned nor digged; but there shall come up abriers and thorns; I will also command the clouds that they brain no rain upon it.
7 For the avineyard of the Lord of Hosts is the house of Israel, and the men of Judah his pleasant plant; and he looked for bjudgment, and behold, coppression; for righteousness, but behold, a cry.
8 Wo unto them that join ahouse to house, till there can be no place, that they may be placed alone in the midst of the earth!
9 In mine ears, said the Lord of Hosts, of a truth many houses shall be desolate, and great and fair cities without inhabitant.
10 Yea, ten acres of vineyard shall yield one abath, and the seed of a homer shall yield an ephah.
11 Wo unto them that rise up early in the morning, that they may afollow strong drink, that continue until night, and bwine inflame them!
12 And the harp, and the aviol, the tabret, and pipe, and wine are in their feasts; but they bregard not the work of the Lord, neither consider the operation of his hands.
13 Therefore, my people are gone into acaptivity, because they have no bknowledge; and their honorable men are famished, and their multitude dried up with thirst.
14 Therefore, hell hath enlarged herself, and opened her mouth without measure; and their glory, and their multitude, and their pomp, and he that rejoiceth, shall descend into it.
15 And the mean man shall be abrought down, and the bmighty man shall be humbled, and the eyes of the clofty shall be humbled.
16 But the Lord of Hosts shall be exalted in ajudgment, and God that is holy shall be sanctified in righteousness.
17 Then shall the lambs feed after their manner, and the waste places of the afat ones shall strangers eat.
18 Wo unto them that draw iniquity with cords of avanity, and sin as it were with a cart rope;
19 That say: Let him amake speed, bhasten his work, that we may csee it; and let the counsel of the Holy One of Israel draw nigh and come, that we may know it.
20 Wo unto them that acall bevil good, and good evil, that put cdarkness for light, and light for darkness, that put bitter for sweet, and sweet for bitter!
21 Wo unto the awise in their own eyes and bprudent in their own sight!
22 Wo unto the mighty to drink awine, and men of strength to mingle strong drink;
23 Who justify the wicked for areward, and take away the righteousness of the righteous from him!
24 Therefore, as the afire devoureth the bstubble, and the flame consumeth the cchaff, their droot shall be rottenness, and their blossoms shall go up as dust; because they have cast away the law of the Lord of Hosts, and edespised the word of the Holy One of Israel.
25 Therefore, is the aanger of the Lord kindled against his people, and he hath stretched forth his hand against them, and hath smitten them; and the hills did tremble, and their carcasses were torn in the midst of the streets. For all this his anger is not turned away, but his hand is stretched out still.
26 And he will lift up an aensign to the bnations from far, and will hiss unto them from the cend of the earth; and behold, they shall dcome with speed swiftly; none shall be weary nor stumble among them.
27 None shall slumber nor sleep; neither shall the girdle of their loins be loosed, nor the latchet of their shoes be broken;
28 Whose arrows shall be sharp, and all their bows bent, and their horses’ hoofs shall be counted like flint, and their wheels like a whirlwind, their roaring like a lion.
29 They shall roar like young alions; yea, they shall roar, and lay hold of the prey, and shall carry away safe, and none shall deliver.
30 And in that aday they shall roar against them like the roaring of the sea; and if they look unto the land, behold, darkness and sorrow, and the light is darkened in the heavens thereof.