1 And now I, Mormon, being about to deliver up the arecord which I have been making into the hands of my son Moroni, behold I have witnessed almost all the destruction of my people, the Nephites.
2 And it is amany hundred years after the coming of Christ that I deliver these records into the hands of my son; and it supposeth me that he will witness the entire bdestruction of my people. But may God grant that he may survive them, that he may write somewhat concerning them, and somewhat concerning Christ, that perhaps some day it may cprofit them.
3 And now, I speak somewhat concerning that which I have written; for after I had made an aabridgment from the bplates of Nephi, down to the reign of this king Benjamin, of whom Amaleki spake, I searched among the crecords which had been delivered into my hands, and I found these plates, which contained this small account of the prophets, from Jacob down to the reign of this king dBenjamin, and also many of the words of Nephi.
4 And the things which are upon these plates apleasing me, because of the prophecies of the coming of Christ; and my fathers knowing that many of them have been fulfilled; yea, and I also know that as many things as have been bprophesied concerning us down to this day have been fulfilled, and as many as go beyond this day must surely come to pass—
5 Wherefore, I chose athese things, to finish my brecord upon them, which remainder of my record I shall take from the cplates of Nephi; and I cannot write the dhundredth part of the things of my people.
6 But behold, I shall take these plates, which contain these prophesyings and revelations, and put them with the remainder of my record, for they are choice unto me; and I know they will be choice unto my brethren.
7 And I do this for a awise bpurpose; for thus it whispereth me, according to the workings of the Spirit of the Lord which is in me. And now, I do not know all things; but the Lord cknoweth all things which are to come; wherefore, he dworketh in me to do according to his ewill.
8 And my aprayer to God is concerning my brethren, that they may once again come to the knowledge of God, yea, the redemption of Christ; that they may once again be a bdelightsome people.
9 And now I, Mormon, proceed to finish out my record, which I take from the plates of Nephi; and I make it according to the knowledge and the aunderstanding which God has given me.
10 Wherefore, it came to pass that after Amaleki had adelivered up these plates into the hands of king Benjamin, he took them and put them with the bother plates, which contained records which had been handed down by the ckings, from generation to generation until the days of king Benjamin.
11 And they were handed down from king Benjamin, from generation to generation until they have fallen into amy hands. And I, Mormon, pray to God that they may be preserved from this time henceforth. And I know that they will be preserved; for there are great things written upon them, out of which bmy people and their brethren shall be cjudged at the great and last day, according to the word of God which is written.
12 And now, concerning this king Benjamin—he had somewhat of contentions among his own people.
13 And it came to pass also that the armies of the Lamanites came down out of the aland of Nephi, to battle against his people. But behold, king Benjamin gathered together his armies, and he did stand against them; and he did fight with the strength of his own arm, with the bsword of Laban.
14 And in the astrength of the Lord they did contend against their enemies, until they had slain many thousands of the Lamanites. And it came to pass that they did contend against the Lamanites until they had driven them out of all the lands of their binheritance.
15 And it came to pass that after there had been false aChrists, and their mouths had been shut, and they punished according to their crimes;
16 And after there had been afalse prophets, and false preachers and teachers among the people, and all these having been punished according to their crimes; and after there having been much contention and many dissensions away bunto the Lamanites, behold, it came to pass that king Benjamin, with the assistance of the holy cprophets who were among his people—
17 For behold, king Benjamin was a aholy man, and he did reign over his people in righteousness; and there were many holy men in the land, and they did speak the word of God with bpower and with authority; and they did use much csharpness because of the stiffneckedness of the people—
18 Wherefore, with the help of these, king aBenjamin, by laboring with all the might of his body and the bfaculty of his whole soul, and also the prophets, did once more establish peace in the land.