1 And now, behold, my brethren, as I said unto you that I would prophesy, behold, this is my prophecy—that the things which this prophet aZenos spake, concerning the house of Israel, in the which he likened them unto a tame bolive tree, must surely come to pass.
2 And the day that he shall set his hand again the second time to arecover his people, is the day, yea, even the last time, that the bservants of the Lord shall go forth in his cpower, to dnourish and prune his evineyard; and after that the fend soon cometh.
3 And how ablessed are they who have labored bdiligently in his vineyard; and how ccursed are they who shall be cast out into their own place! And the dworld shall be eburned with fire.
4 And how merciful is our God unto us, for he remembereth the house of aIsrael, both roots and branches; and he stretches forth his bhands unto them all the day long; and they are a cstiffnecked and a gainsaying people; but as many as will not harden their hearts shall be saved in the kingdom of God.
5 Wherefore, my beloved brethren, I beseech of you in words of soberness that ye would repent, and come with full purpose of heart, and acleave unto God as he cleaveth unto you. And while his barm of mercy is extended towards you in the light of the day, harden not your hearts.
6 Yea, today, if ye will hear his voice, harden not your hearts; for why will ye adie?
7 For behold, after ye have been nourished by the good aword of God all the day long, will ye bring forth evil fruit, that ye must be bhewn down and cast into the fire?
8 Behold, will ye reject these words? Will ye reject the words of the aprophets; and will ye reject all the words which have been spoken concerning Christ, after so many have spoken concerning him; and bdeny the good word of Christ, and the power of God, and the cgift of the Holy Ghost, and quench the Holy Spirit, and make a dmock of the great plan of redemption, which hath been laid for you?
9 Know ye not that if ye will do these things, that the power of the redemption and the resurrection, which is in Christ, will bring you to stand with ashame and bawful cguilt before the bar of God?
10 And according to the power of ajustice, for justice cannot be denied, ye must go away into that blake of fire and brimstone, whose flames are unquenchable, and whose smoke ascendeth up forever and ever, which lake of fire and brimstone is cendless dtorment.
11 O then, my beloved brethren, repent ye, and enter in at the astrait gate, and bcontinue in the way which is narrow, until ye shall obtain eternal life.
12 O be awise; what can I say more?
13 Finally, I bid you farewell, until I shall meet you before the apleasing bar of God, which bar striketh the wicked with bawful dread and fear. Amen.