1 And now it came to pass that when Jesus had ended these sayings he cast his eyes round about on the multitude, and said unto them: Behold, ye have heard the things which I ataught before I ascended to my Father; therefore, whoso remembereth these sayings of mine and bdoeth them, him will I craise up at the last day.
2 And it came to pass that when Jesus had said these words he perceived that there were some among them who marveled, and wondered what he would concerning the law of Moses; for they understood not the saying that aold things had passed away, and that all things had become new.
3 And he said unto them: Marvel not that I said unto you that old things had passed away, and that all things had become anew.
4 Behold, I say unto you that the alaw is fulfilled that was given unto Moses.
5 Behold, aI am he that gave the law, and I am he who covenanted with my people Israel; therefore, the law in me is fulfilled, for I have come to bfulfil the law; therefore it hath an end.
6 Behold, I do anot destroy the prophets, for as many as have not been fulfilled in me, verily I say unto you, shall all be fulfilled.
7 And because I said unto you that old things have passed away, I do not destroy that which hath been spoken concerning things which are to come.
8 For behold, the acovenant which I have made with my people is not all fulfilled; but the law which was given unto Moses hath an end in me.
9 Behold, I am the alaw, and the blight. Look unto me, and endure to the end, and ye shall clive; for unto him that dendureth to the end will I give eternal life.
10 Behold, I have given unto you the acommandments; therefore keep my commandments. And this is the law and the prophets, for they truly btestified of me.
11 And now it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken these words, he asaid unto those twelve whom he had chosen:
12 Ye are my adisciples; and ye are a blight unto this people, who are a remnant of the house of cJoseph.
13 And behold, this is the aland of your inheritance; and the Father hath given it unto you.
14 And not at any time hath the Father given me commandment that I should atell it unto your brethren at Jerusalem.
15 Neither at any time hath the Father given me commandment that I should tell unto them concerning the aother tribes of the house of Israel, whom the Father hath led away out of the land.
16 This much did the Father acommand me, that I should tell unto them:
17 That other sheep I have which are not of this fold; them also I must bring, and they shall hear my voice; and there shall be one fold, and one ashepherd.
18 And now, because of astiffneckedness and bunbelief they cunderstood not my word; therefore I was commanded to say no more of the dFather concerning this thing unto them.
19 But, verily, I say unto you that the Father hath commanded me, and I tell it unto you, that ye were aseparated from among them because of their iniquity; therefore it is because of their iniquity that they know not of you.
20 And verily, I say unto you again that the other tribes hath the Father separated from them; and it is because of their iniquity that they know not of them.
21 And verily I say unto you, that ye are they of whom I said: aOther sheep I have which are not of this fold; them also I must bring, and they shall hear my voice; and there shall be one fold, and one bshepherd.
22 And they understood me not, for they supposed it had been the aGentiles; for they understood not that the Gentiles should be bconverted through their preaching.
23 And they understood me not that I said they shall hear my voice; and they understood me not that the aGentiles should not at any time hear my voice—that I should not manifest myself unto them save it were by the bHoly Ghost.
24 But behold, ye have both heard amy voice, and seen me; and ye are my sheep, and ye are numbered among those whom the Father hath bgiven me.