1 aNevertheless, the dimness shall not be such as was in her vexation, when at first he lightly afflicted the bland of cZebulun, and the land of dNaphtali, and afterwards did more grievously afflict by the way of the Red Sea beyond Jordan in Galilee of the nations.
2 The people that walked in darkness have seen a great light; they that dwell in the land of the shadow of death, upon them hath the light shined.
3 Thou hast multiplied the nation, and aincreased the joy—they joy before thee according to the joy in harvest, and as men rejoice when they divide the spoil.
4 For thou hast broken the yoke of ahis burden, and the staff of his shoulder, the rod of his boppressor.
5 For every battle of the warrior is with confused noise, and garments rolled in blood; but athis shall be with burning and fuel of fire.
6 For unto us a achild is born, unto us a son is given; and the bgovernment shall be upon his shoulder; and his name shall be called, Wonderful, Counselor, The cMighty God, The dEverlasting Father, The Prince of ePeace.
7 Of the increase of agovernment and peace bthere is no end, upon the throne of cDavid, and upon his kingdom to order it, and to establish it with judgment and with justice from henceforth, even forever. The zeal of the Lord of Hosts will perform this.
8 The Lord sent his word unto Jacob and it hath lighted upon Israel.
9 And all the people shall know, even Ephraim and the inhabitants of Samaria, that say in the pride and stoutness of heart:
10 The bricks are fallen down, but we will build with hewn astones; the sycamores are cut down, but we will change them into bcedars.
11 Therefore the Lord shall set up the adversaries of aRezin against him, and join his enemies together;
12 The Syrians before and the Philistines behind; and they shall adevour Israel with open mouth. For all this his banger is not turned away, but his hand is stretched out still.
13 For the people turneth not unto ahim that smiteth them, neither do they seek the Lord of Hosts.
14 Therefore will the Lord cut off from Israel head and tail, branch and rush ain one day.
15 The aancient, he is the head; and the prophet that teacheth lies, he is the tail.
16 For the aleaders of this people cause them to err; and they that are bled of them are destroyed.
17 Therefore the Lord shall have no joy in their young men, neither shall have amercy on their fatherless and bwidows; for cevery one of them is a hypocrite and an devildoer, and every mouth speaketh efolly. For all this his anger is not turned away, but his fhand is stretched out still.
18 For awickedness burneth as the fire; it shall devour the briers and thorns, and shall kindle in the thickets of the forests, and they shall mount up like the lifting up of smoke.
19 Through the wrath of the Lord of Hosts is the aland darkened, and the people shall be as the fuel of the fire; bno man shall spare his brother.
20 And he ashall snatch on the right hand and be hungry; and he shall beat on the left hand and they shall not be satisfied; they shall eat every man the flesh of his own arm—
21 Manasseh, aEphraim; and Ephraim, Manasseh; they together shall be against bJudah. For all this his anger is not turned away, but his hand is stretched out still.