1 Verily, thus saith the Lord: It shall come to pass that every soul who aforsaketh his bsins and cometh unto me, and ccalleth on my name, and dobeyeth my voice, and keepeth my commandments, shall esee my fface and gknow that I am;
2 And that I am the true alight that lighteth every man that cometh into the world;
3 And that I am ain the Father, and the Father in me, and the Father and I are one—
4 The Father abecause he bgave me of his fulness, and the Son because I was in the world and made cflesh my dtabernacle, and dwelt among the sons of men.
5 I was in the world and received of my Father, and the aworks of him were plainly manifest.
6 And aJohn saw and bore record of the fulness of my bglory, and the fulness of cJohn’s record is hereafter to be revealed.
7 And he bore record, saying: I saw his glory, that he was in the abeginning, before the world was;
8 Therefore, in the beginning the aWord was, for he was the Word, even the messenger of salvation—
9 The alight and the Redeemer of the world; the Spirit of truth, who came into the world, because the world was made by him, and in him was the life of men and the light of men.
10 The worlds were amade by him; men were made by him; all things were made by him, and through him, and of him.
11 And I, John, abear record that I beheld his bglory, as the glory of the Only Begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth, even the Spirit of truth, which came and dwelt in the flesh, and dwelt among us.
12 And I, John, saw that he received not of the afulness at the first, but received bgrace for grace;
13 And he received not of the fulness at first, but continued from agrace to grace, until he received a fulness;
14 And thus he was called the aSon of God, because he received not of the fulness at the first.
15 And I, aJohn, bear record, and lo, the heavens were opened, and the Holy Ghost descended upon him in the form of a dove, and sat upon him, and there came a voice out of heaven saying: This is my bbeloved Son.
16 And I, John, bear record that he received a fulness of the glory of the Father;
17 And he received aall bpower, both in heaven and on earth, and the glory of the Father was with him, for he dwelt in him.
18 And it shall come to pass, that if you are faithful you shall receive the afulness of the record of John.
19 I give unto you these sayings that you may understand and know how to worship, and aknow what you worship, that you may come unto the Father in my name, and in due time receive of his fulness.
20 For if you keep my acommandments you shall receive of his bfulness, and be cglorified in me as I am in the Father; therefore, I say unto you, you shall receive dgrace for grace.
21 And now, verily I say unto you, I was in the abeginning with the Father, and am the bFirstborn;
22 And all those who are begotten through me are apartakers of the bglory of the same, and are the cchurch of the Firstborn.
23 Ye were also in the beginning with the Father; that which is aSpirit, even the Spirit of truth;
24 And atruth is bknowledge of things as they are, and as they were, and as they are to come;
25 And whatsoever is amore or less than this is the spirit of that wicked one who was a bliar from the beginning.
26 The Spirit of atruth is of God. I am the Spirit of truth, and John bore record of me, saying: He breceived a fulness of truth, yea, even of all truth;
27 And no man receiveth a afulness unless he keepeth his commandments.
28 He that akeepeth his commandments receiveth btruth and clight, until he is glorified in truth and dknoweth all things.
29 Man was also in the abeginning with God. bIntelligence, or the clight of dtruth, was not ecreated or made, neither indeed can be.
30 All truth is independent in that asphere in which God has placed it, to bact for itself, as all intelligence also; otherwise there is no existence.
31 Behold, here is the aagency of man, and here is the condemnation of man; because that which was from the beginning is bplainly manifest unto them, and they receive not the light.
32 And every man whose spirit receiveth not the alight is under condemnation.
33 For man is aspirit. The elements are beternal, and cspirit and element, inseparably connected, receive a fulness of joy;
34 And when aseparated, man cannot receive a fulness of joy.
35 The aelements are the btabernacle of God; yea, man is the tabernacle of God, even ctemples; and whatsoever temple is ddefiled, God shall destroy that temple.
36 The aglory of God is bintelligence, or, in other words, clight and truth.
37 Light and truth forsake that aevil one.
38 Every aspirit of man was binnocent in the beginning; and God having credeemed man from the dfall, men became again, in their infant state, einnocent before God.
39 And that awicked one cometh and btaketh away light and truth, through cdisobedience, from the children of men, and because of the dtradition of their fathers.
40 But I have commanded you to bring up your achildren in blight and truth.
41 But verily I say unto you, my servant Frederick G. Williams, you have continued under this condemnation;
42 You have not ataught your children light and truth, according to the commandments; and that wicked one hath power, as yet, over you, and this is the cause of your baffliction.
43 And now a commandment I give unto you—if you will be delivered you shall set in aorder your own house, for there are many things that are not right in your house.
44 Verily, I say unto my servant Sidney Rigdon, that in some things he hath not kept the commandments concerning his children; therefore, first set in order thy house.
45 Verily, I say unto my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., or in other words, I will call you afriends, for you are my friends, and ye shall have an inheritance with me—
46 I called you aservants for the world’s sake, and ye are their servants for my sake—
47 And now, verily I say unto Joseph Smith, Jun.—You have not kept the commandments, and must needs stand arebuked before the Lord;
48 Your afamily must needs repent and forsake some things, and give more earnest heed unto your sayings, or be removed out of their place.
49 What I say unto one I say unto all; apray always lest that wicked one have power in you, and remove you out of your place.
50 My servant Newel K. Whitney also, a bishop of my church, hath need to be achastened, and set in border his family, and see that they are more cdiligent and concerned at home, and pray always, or they shall be removed out of their dplace.
51 Now, I say unto you, my friends, let my servant Sidney Rigdon go on his journey, and make haste, and also proclaim the aacceptable year of the Lord, and the bgospel of salvation, as I shall give him utterance; and by your prayer of faith with one consent I will uphold him.
52 And let my servants Joseph Smith, Jun., and Frederick G. Williams make haste also, and it shall be given them even according to the prayer of faith; and inasmuch as you keep my sayings you shall not be confounded in this world, nor in the world to come.
53 And, verily I say unto you, that it is my will that you should ahasten to btranslate my scriptures, and to cobtain a dknowledge of history, and of countries, and of kingdoms, of elaws of God and man, and all this for the salvation of Zion. Amen.