1 Hearken and listen to the voice of him who is from all aeternity to all eternity, the Great bI Am, even Jesus Christ—
2 The alight and the life of the world; a light which shineth in darkness and the darkness comprehendeth it not;
3 The same which came in the ameridian of time unto mine own, and mine own breceived me not;
4 But to as many as received me, gave I power to become my asons; and even so will I give unto as many as will receive me, power to become my sons.
5 And verily, verily, I say unto you, he that receiveth my gospel areceiveth me; and he that breceiveth not my gospel receiveth not me.
6 And this is my agospel—repentance and baptism by water, and then cometh the bbaptism of fire and the Holy Ghost, even the Comforter, which showeth all things, and cteacheth the peaceable things of the kingdom.
7 And now, behold, I say unto you, my servant aJames, I have looked upon thy works and I bknow thee.
8 And verily I say unto thee, thine heart is now right before me at this time; and, behold, I have bestowed great ablessings upon thy head;
9 Nevertheless, thou hast seen great asorrow, for thou hast brejected me many times because of pride and the cares of the cworld.
10 But, behold, the days of thy adeliverance are come, if thou wilt bhearken to my voice, which saith unto thee: Arise and be baptized, and cwash away your sins, calling on my name, and you shall receive my Spirit, and a blessing so great as you never have known.
11 And if thou do this, I have prepared thee for a greater work. Thou shalt preach the afulness of my gospel, which I have sent forth in these last days, the bcovenant which I have sent forth to crecover my people, which are of the house of Israel.
12 And it shall come to pass that power shall arest upon thee; thou shalt have great faith, and I will be with thee and go before thy face.
13 Thou art called to alabor in my vineyard, and to bbuild up my cchurch, and to bring forth dZion, that it may rejoice upon the hills and eflourish.
14 Behold, verily, verily, I say unto thee, thou art not called to go into the eastern countries, but thou art called to go to the Ohio.
15 And inasmuch as my people shall assemble themselves at the Ohio, I have kept in store a ablessing such as is not known among the children of men, and it shall be poured forth upon their heads. And from thence men shall go forth into ball cnations.
16 Behold, verily, verily, I say unto you, that the people in Ohio call upon me in much faith, thinking I will astay my hand in judgment upon the nations, but I cannot bdeny my word.
17 Wherefore lay to with your might and call faithful laborers into my vineyard, that it may be apruned for the last time.
18 And inasmuch as they do repent and receive the fulness of my gospel, and become sanctified, I will stay mine hand in ajudgment.
19 Wherefore, go forth, crying with a loud voice, saying: The kingdom of heaven is at ahand; crying: Hosanna! blessed be the name of the Most High God.
20 Go forth abaptizing with water, preparing the way before my face for the time of my bcoming;
21 For the time is at hand; the aday or the hour no man bknoweth; but it surely shall ccome.
22 And he that receiveth these things receiveth me; and they shall be agathered unto me in time and in eternity.
23 And again, it shall come to pass that on as many as ye shall baptize with water, ye shall lay your ahands, and they shall receive the bgift of the Holy Ghost, and shall be clooking forth for the signs of my dcoming, and shall know me.
24 Behold, I come quickly. Even so. Amen.