1 Listen to the voice of Jesus Christ, your Redeemer, the Great aI Am, whose arm of bmercy hath catoned for your sins;
2 Who will agather his people even as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, even as many as will hearken to my voice and bhumble themselves before me, and call upon me in mighty prayer.
3 Behold, verily, verily, I say unto you, that at this time your asins are bforgiven you, therefore ye receive these things; but remember to sin no more, lest perils shall come upon you.
4 Verily, I say unto you that ye are chosen out of the world to declare my gospel with the sound of rejoicing, as with the avoice of a trump.
5 Lift up your hearts and be aglad, for I am in your bmidst, and am your cadvocate with the Father; and it is his good will to give you the dkingdom.
6 And, as it is written—Whatsoever ye shall aask in bfaith, being cunited in prayer according to my command, ye shall receive.
7 And ye are called to bring to pass the agathering of mine belect; for mine elect chear my voice and dharden not their ehearts;
8 Wherefore the decree hath gone forth from the Father that they shall be agathered in unto one place upon the face of this land, to bprepare their hearts and be prepared in all things against the day when ctribulation and desolation are sent forth upon the wicked.
9 For the hour is nigh and the aday soon at hand when the earth is ripe; and all the bproud and they that do wickedly shall be as cstubble; and I will dburn them up, saith the Lord of Hosts, that wickedness shall not be upon the earth;
10 For the hour is nigh, and that which was aspoken by mine bapostles must be fulfilled; for as they spoke so shall it come to pass;
11 For I will reveal amyself from heaven with power and great glory, with all the bhosts thereof, and cdwell in drighteousness with men on earth a ethousand years, and the wicked shall not stand.
12 And again, verily, verily, I say unto you, and it hath gone forth in a firm decree, by the will of the Father, that mine aapostles, the Twelve which were with me in my ministry at Jerusalem, shall stand at my right hand at the day of my coming in a pillar of bfire, being clothed with robes of righteousness, with crowns upon their heads, in cglory even as I am, to djudge the whole house of Israel, even as many as have loved me and kept my commandments, and none else.
13 For a atrump shall sound both long and loud, even as upon Mount Sinai, and all the bearth shall quake, and they shall ccome forth—yea, even the ddead which died in me, to receive a ecrown of righteousness, and to be clothed upon, feven as I am, to be with me, that we may be one.
14 But, behold, I say unto you that before this great aday shall come the bsun shall be cdarkened, and the moon shall be turned into blood, and the stars shall fall from heaven, and there shall be greater dsigns in heaven above and in the earth beneath;
15 And there shall be weeping and awailing among the hosts of men;
16 And there shall be a great ahailstorm sent forth to destroy the bcrops of the earth.
17 And it shall come to pass, because of the wickedness of the world, that I will take avengeance upon the bwicked, for they will not repent; for the ccup of mine dindignation is full; for behold, my eblood shall not fcleanse them if they hear me not.
18 Wherefore, I the Lord God will send forth aflies upon the face of the earth, which shall take hold of the inhabitants thereof, and shall eat their flesh, and shall cause maggots to come in upon them;
19 And their tongues shall be stayed that they shall not autter against me; and their flesh shall fall from off their bones, and their eyes from their sockets;
20 And it shall come to pass that the abeasts of the forest and the fowls of the air shall devour them up.
21 And the great and aabominable church, which is the bwhore of all the earth, shall be cast down by cdevouring fire, according as it is spoken by the mouth of Ezekiel the prophet, who spoke of these things, which have not come to pass but surely dmust, as I live, for eabominations shall not reign.
22 And again, verily, verily, I say unto you that when the athousand years are ended, and men again begin to deny their God, then will I spare the earth but for a blittle season;
23 And the aend shall come, and the heaven and the earth shall be consumed and bpass away, and there shall be a new heaven and a cnew earth.
24 For all aold things shall bpass away, and all things shall become new, even the heaven and the earth, and all the fulness thereof, both men and cbeasts, the fowls of the air, and the fishes of the sea;
25 And not one ahair, neither mote, shall be lost, for it is the bworkmanship of mine hand.
26 But, behold, verily I say unto you, before the earth shall pass away, aMichael, mine archangel, shall sound his btrump, and then shall all the dead cawake, for their graves shall be opened, and they shall dcome forth—yea, even all.
27 And the arighteous shall be gathered on my bright hand unto eternal life; and the wicked on my left hand will I be ashamed to own before the Father;
28 Wherefore I will say unto them—aDepart from me, ye cursed, into everlasting bfire, prepared for the cdevil and his angels.
29 And now, behold, I say unto you, never at any time have I declared from mine own mouth that they should return, for awhere I am they cannot come, for they have no power.
30 But remember that all my judgments are not given unto men; and as the words have gone forth out of my mouth even so shall they be fulfilled, that the afirst shall be last, and that the last shall be first in all things whatsoever I have created by the word of my power, which is the power of my bSpirit.
31 For by the power of my Spirit acreated I them; yea, all things both bspiritual and temporal—
32 aFirst bspiritual, secondly temporal, which is the beginning of my work; and again, first temporal, and secondly spiritual, which is the last of my work—
33 aSpeaking unto you that you may naturally understand; but unto myself my works have no bend, neither beginning; but it is given unto you that ye may understand, because ye have asked it of me and are agreed.
34 Wherefore, verily I say unto you that all things unto me are spiritual, and not at any time have I given unto you a alaw which was btemporal; neither any man, nor the children of men; neither Adam, your father, whom I created.
35 Behold, I gave unto him that he should be an aagent unto himself; and I gave unto him commandment, but no temporal commandment gave I unto him, for my bcommandments are cspiritual; they are not natural nor temporal, neither carnal nor sensual.
36 And it came to pass that Adam, being tempted of the adevil—for, behold, the bdevil was before Adam, for he crebelled against me, saying, Give me thine dhonor, which is my epower; and also a fthird part of the ghosts of heaven turned he away from me because of their hagency;
37 And they were thrust down, and thus came the adevil and his bangels;
38 And, behold, there is a place aprepared for them from the beginning, which place is bhell.
39 And it must needs be that the adevil should btempt the children of men, or they could not be cagents unto themselves; for if they never should have dbitter they could not know the sweet—
40 Wherefore, it came to pass that the devil tempted Adam, and he partook of the forbidden afruit and btransgressed the commandment, wherein he became csubject to the will of the devil, because he yielded unto temptation.
41 Wherefore, I, the Lord God, caused that he should be acast out from the Garden of bEden, from my presence, because of his transgression, wherein he became cspiritually ddead, which is the first death, even that same death which is the last edeath, which is spiritual, which shall be pronounced upon the wicked when I shall say: Depart, ye fcursed.
42 But, behold, I say unto you that I, the Lord God, gave unto Adam and unto his seed, that they should not adie as to the temporal death, until I, the Lord God, should send forth bangels to declare unto them crepentance and dredemption, through faith on the name of mine eOnly Begotten Son.
43 And thus did I, the Lord God, appoint unto man the days of his aprobation—that by his bnatural death he might be craised in dimmortality unto eternal life, even as many as would believe;
44 And they that believe not unto eternal adamnation; for they cannot be redeemed from their spiritual bfall, because they repent not;
45 For they love darkness rather than light, and their adeeds are evil, and they receive their bwages of cwhom they list to obey.
46 But behold, I say unto you, that little achildren are bredeemed from the foundation of the world through mine Only Begotten;
47 Wherefore, they cannot asin, for power is not given unto Satan to btempt little children, until they cbegin to become daccountable before me;
48 For it is given unto them even as I will, according to mine own apleasure, that great things may be required at the hand of their bfathers.
49 And, again, I say unto you, that whoso having knowledge, have I not commanded to arepent?
50 And he that hath no aunderstanding, it remaineth in me to do according as it is written. And now I declare no more unto you at this time. Amen.