1 Behold, thus saith the Lord unto the elders of his church, who are to return speedily to the land from whence they came: Behold, it pleaseth me, that you have come up hither;
2 But with some I am not well pleased, for they will not open their amouths, but they hide the btalent which I have given unto them, because of the cfear of man. Wo unto such, for mine danger is ekindled against them.
3 And it shall come to pass, if they are not more faithful unto me, it shall be ataken away, even that which they have.
4 For I, the Lord, arule in the heavens above, and among the barmies of the earth; and in the day when I shall make up my cjewels, all men shall know what it is that bespeaketh the power of God.
5 But, verily, I will speak unto you concerning your journey unto the land from whence you came. Let there be a craft made, or bought, as aseemeth you good, it mattereth not unto me, and take your journey speedily for the place which is called St. Louis.
6 And from thence let my servants, Sidney Rigdon, Joseph Smith, Jun., and Oliver Cowdery, take their journey for Cincinnati;
7 And in this place let them lift up their voice and declare my word with loud voices, without wrath or adoubting, lifting up holy hands upon them. For I am able to make you bholy, and your sins are cforgiven you.
8 And let the residue take their journey from St. Louis, atwo by two, and preach the word, not in haste, among the congregations of the wicked, until they return to the churches from whence they came.
9 And all this for the good of the achurches; for this intent have I sent them.
10 And let my servant aEdward Partridge impart of the bmoney which I have given him, a portion unto mine elders who are commanded to return;
11 And he that is able, let him return it by the way of the agent; and he that is not, of him it is not required.
12 And now I speak of the residue who are to come unto this land.
13 Behold, they have been sent to preach my gospel among the congregations of the wicked; wherefore, I give unto them a commandment, thus: Thou shalt not aidle away thy time, neither shalt thou bury thy btalent that it may not be known.
14 And after thou hast come up unto the land of Zion, and hast proclaimed my word, thou shalt speedily return, proclaiming my word among the congregations of the wicked, not in ahaste, neither in bwrath nor with cstrife.
15 And shake off the adust of thy feet against those who receive thee not, not in their presence, lest thou bprovoke them, but in secret; and cwash thy feet, as a testimony against them in the day of judgment.
16 Behold, this is sufficient for you, and the will of him who hath sent you.
17 And by the mouth of my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., it shall be made known concerning Sidney Rigdon and Oliver Cowdery. The residue hereafter. Even so. Amen.