1 Hearken, O ye elders of my achurch, who have assembled yourselves together in my name, even Jesus Christ the Son of the living God, the Savior of the world; inasmuch as ye believe on my name and keep my commandments.
2 Again I say unto you, hearken and hear and obey the alaw which I shall give unto you.
3 For verily I say, as ye have assembled yourselves together according to the acommandment wherewith I commanded you, and are agreed as btouching this one thing, and have asked the Father in my name, even so ye shall receive.
4 Behold, verily I say unto you, I give unto you this first commandment, that ye shall ago forth in my name, every one of you, excepting my servants Joseph Smith, Jun., and Sidney Rigdon.
5 And I give unto them a commandment that they shall go forth for a little season, and it shall be agiven by the power of the Spirit when they shall return.
6 And ye shall go forth in the power of my Spirit, preaching my gospel, atwo by two, in my name, lifting up your voices as with the sound of a btrump, declaring my word like unto angels of God.
7 And ye shall go forth baptizing with water, saying: Repent ye, repent ye, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand.
8 And from this place ye shall go forth into the regions westward; and inasmuch as ye shall find them that will receive you ye shall abuild up my church in every region—
9 Until the time shall come when it shall be revealed unto you from on high, when the acity of the bNew Jerusalem shall be prepared, that ye may be cgathered in one, that ye may be my dpeople and I will be your God.
10 And again, I say unto you, that my servant aEdward Partridge shall stand in the office whereunto I have bappointed him. And it shall come to pass, that if he transgress canother shall be appointed in his stead. Even so. Amen.
11 Again I say unto you, that it shall not be given to any one to go forth to apreach my gospel, or to build up my church, except he be bordained by some one who has cauthority, and it is known to the church that he has authority and has been regularly ordained by the heads of the church.
12 And again, the aelders, priests and teachers of this church shall bteach the principles of my gospel, which are in the Bible and the cBook of Mormon, in the which is the dfulness of the egospel.
13 And they shall aobserve the bcovenants and church articles to cdo them, and these shall be their teachings, as they shall be ddirected by the Spirit.
14 And the Spirit shall be given unto you aby the prayer of faith; and if ye receive not the bSpirit ye shall not teach.
15 And all this ye shall observe to do as I have acommanded concerning your teaching, until the fulness of my bscriptures is given.
16 And as ye shall lift up your voices by the aComforter, ye shall speak and prophesy as seemeth me good;
17 For, behold, the aComforter knoweth all things, and bbeareth record of the Father and of the Son.
18 And now, behold, I speak unto the church. Thou shalt not akill; and he that bkills shall cnot have forgiveness in this world, nor in the world to come.
19 And again, I say, thou shalt not kill; but he that akilleth shall bdie.
20 Thou shalt not steal; and he that astealeth and will not repent shall be bcast out.
21 Thou shalt not alie; he that lieth and will not repent shall be cast out.
22 Thou shalt alove thy wife with all thy heart, and shalt bcleave unto her and none else.
23 And he that alooketh upon a woman to lust after her shall deny the faith, and shall not have the bSpirit; and if he repents not he shall be cast out.
24 Thou shalt not commit aadultery; and he that committeth badultery, and repenteth not, shall be ccast out.
25 But he that has committed adultery and repents with all his heart, and forsaketh it, and doeth it ano more, thou shalt forgive;
26 But if he doeth it aagain, he shall not be forgiven, but shall be cast out.
27 Thou shalt not aspeak evil of thy neighbor, nor do him any harm.
28 Thou knowest my laws concerning these things are given in my scriptures; he that sinneth and arepenteth not shall be bcast out.
29 If thou alovest me thou shalt bserve me and ckeep all my commandments.
30 And behold, thou wilt remember the apoor, and bconsecrate of thy properties for their csupport that which thou hast to impart unto them, with a covenant and a deed which cannot be broken.
31 And inasmuch as ye aimpart of your bsubstance unto the cpoor, ye will do it unto me; and they shall be dlaid before the ebishop of my church and his fcounselors, two of the elders, or high priests, such as he shall appoint or has appointed and gset apart for that purpose.
32 And it shall come to pass, that after they are laid before the bishop of my church, and after that he has received these testimonies concerning the aconsecration of the properties of my church, that they cannot be taken from the church, agreeable to my commandments, every man shall be made baccountable unto me, a csteward over his own property, or that which he has received by consecration, as much as is sufficient for himself and dfamily.
33 And again, if there shall be properties in the hands of the church, or any individuals of it, more than is necessary for their support after this first consecration, which is a aresidue to be consecrated unto the bishop, it shall be kept to administer to those who have not, from time to time, that every man who has need may be amply supplied and receive according to his wants.
34 Therefore, the residue shall be kept in my astorehouse, to administer to the poor and the needy, as shall be appointed by the bhigh council of the church, and the bishop and his council;
35 And for the purpose of apurchasing lands for the public benefit of the church, and building houses of bworship, and building up of the cNew Jerusalem which is hereafter to be revealed—
36 That my covenant people may be gathered in one in that day when I shall acome to my btemple. And this I do for the salvation of my people.
37 And it shall come to pass, that he that sinneth and repenteth not shall be acast out of the church, and shall not receive again that which he has bconsecrated unto the poor and the needy of my church, or in other words, unto me—
38 For inasmuch as ye ado it unto the least of these, ye do it unto me.
39 For it shall come to pass, that which I spake by the mouths of my prophets shall be fulfilled; for I will consecrate of the ariches of those who embrace my gospel among the Gentiles unto the bpoor of my people who are of the house of Israel.
40 And again, thou shalt not be aproud in thy bheart; let all thy cgarments be plain, and their dbeauty the beauty of the ework of thine own hands;
41 And let all things be done in acleanliness before me.
42 Thou shalt not be aidle; for he that is idle shall not eat the bbread nor wear the garments of the claborer.
43 And whosoever among you are asick, and have not faith to be healed, but believe, shall be bnourished with all tenderness, with herbs and mild cfood, and that not by the hand of an enemy.
44 And the elders of the church, two or more, shall be called, and shall pray for and alay their bhands upon them in my name; and if they cdie they shall ddie unto me, and if they live they shall live unto me.
45 Thou shalt alive together in blove, insomuch that thou shalt cweep for the loss of them that die, and more especially for those that have not dhope of a glorious resurrection.
46 And it shall come to pass that those that die in me shall not ataste of bdeath, for it shall be csweet unto them;
47 And they that die not in me, wo unto them, for their death is bitter.
48 And again, it shall come to pass that he that hath afaith in me to be bhealed, and is not cappointed unto death, shall be dhealed.
49 He who hath faith to see shall see.
50 He who hath faith to hear shall hear.
51 The lame who hath faith to leap shall leap.
52 And they who have not faith to do these things, but believe in me, have apower to become my bsons; and inasmuch as they break not my laws thou shalt cbear their infirmities.
53 Thou shalt astand in the place of thy stewardship.
54 Thou shalt not take thy brother’s agarment; thou shalt bpay for that which thou shalt receive of thy brother.
55 And if thou aobtainest more than that which would be for thy support, thou shalt give it into my bstorehouse, that all things may be done according to that which I have said.
56 Thou shalt ask, and my ascriptures shall be given as I have appointed, and they shall be bpreserved in safety;
57 And it is expedient that thou shouldst hold thy peace concerning them, and anot teach them until ye have received them in full.
58 And I give unto you a commandment that then ye shall teach them unto all men; for they shall be ataught unto ball cnations, kindreds, tongues and people.
59 Thou shalt take the things which thou hast received, which have been given unto thee in my scriptures for a law, to be my alaw to govern my bchurch;
60 And he that adoeth according to these things shall be saved, and he that doeth them not shall be bdamned if he so continue.
61 If thou shalt ask, thou shalt receive arevelation upon revelation, bknowledge upon knowledge, that thou mayest know the cmysteries and dpeaceable things—that which bringeth ejoy, that which bringeth life eternal.
62 Thou shalt ask, and it shall be revealed unto you in mine own due time where the aNew Jerusalem shall be built.
63 And behold, it shall come to pass that my servants shall be sent forth to the east and to the west, to the north and to the south.
64 And even now, let him that goeth to the east teach them that shall be converted to flee to the awest, and this in consequence of bthat which is coming on the earth, and of csecret combinations.
65 Behold, thou shalt observe all these things, and great shall be thy areward; for unto you it is given to know the bmysteries of the kingdom, but unto the world it is not given to know them.
66 Ye shall observe the laws which ye have received and be faithful.
67 And ye shall hereafter receive church acovenants, such as shall be sufficient to establish you, both here and in the New Jerusalem.
68 Therefore, he that lacketh awisdom, let him ask of me, and I will give him liberally and upbraid him not.
69 Lift up your hearts and rejoice, for unto you the akingdom, or in other words, the bkeys of the church have been given. Even so. Amen.
70 The priests and ateachers shall have their bstewardships, even as the members.
71 And the elders or high priests who are appointed to assist the bishop as counselors in all things, are to have their families asupported out of the property which is bconsecrated to the bishop, for the good of the poor, and for other purposes, as before mentioned;
72 Or they are to receive a just remuneration for all their services, either a stewardship or otherwise, as may be thought best or decided by the counselors and bishop.
73 And the bishop, also, shall receive his support, or a just remuneration for all his services in the church.
74 Behold, verily I say unto you, that whatever persons among you, having put away their acompanions for the cause of bfornication, or in other words, if they shall testify before you in all lowliness of heart that this is the case, ye shall not cast them out from among you;
75 But if ye shall find that any persons have left their companions for the sake of aadultery, and they themselves are the offenders, and their companions are living, they shall be bcast out from among you.
76 And again, I say unto you, that ye shall be awatchful and careful, with all inquiry, that ye receive none such among you if they are married;
77 And if they are not married, they shall repent of all their sins or ye shall not receive them.
78 And again, every person who belongeth to this church of Christ, shall observe to keep all the commandments and covenants of the church.
79 And it shall come to pass, that if any persons among you shall akill they shall be delivered up and dealt with according to the laws of the land; for remember that he hath no forgiveness; and it shall be proved according to the laws of the land.
80 And if any man or woman shall commit aadultery, he or she shall be tried before two elders of the church, or more, and every word shall be established against him or her by two bwitnesses of the church, and not of the enemy; but if there are more than two witnesses it is better.
81 But he or she shall be condemned by the mouth of two witnesses; and the elders shall lay the case before the achurch, and the church shall lift up their hands against him or her, that they may be dealt with according to the blaw of God.
82 And if it can be, it is necessary that the abishop be present also.
83 And thus ye shall do in all cases which shall come before you.
84 And if a man or woman shall rob, he or she shall be delivered up unto the law of the land.
85 And if he or she shall asteal, he or she shall be delivered up unto the law of the land.
86 And if he or she shall alie, he or she shall be delivered up unto the law of the land.
87 And if he or she do any manner of ainiquity, he or she shall be delivered up unto the law, even that of God.
88 And if thy abrother or sister boffend thee, thou shalt take him or her between him or her and thee alone; and if he or she cconfess thou shalt be dreconciled.
89 And if he or she confess not thou shalt deliver him or her up unto the church, not to the members, but to the elders. And it shall be done in a ameeting, and that not before the world.
90 And if thy brother or sister offend many, he or she shall be achastened before many.
91 And if any one offend aopenly, he or she shall be rebuked openly, that he or she may be bashamed. And if he or she confess not, he or she shall be delivered up unto the law of God.
92 If any shall offend in secret, he or she shall be rebuked in secret, that he or she may have opportunity to confess in secret to him or her whom he or she has offended, and to God, that the church may not speak reproachfully of him or her.
93 And thus shall ye conduct in all things.