1 A great and amarvelous work is about to come forth unto the children of men.
2 Behold, I am God; give heed unto my aword, which is quick and powerful, bsharper than a two-edged sword, to the dividing asunder of both joints and marrow; therefore give heed unto my words.
3 Behold, the afield is white already to harvest; therefore, whoso desireth to reap, let him thrust in his sickle with his might, and reap while the day blasts, that he may ctreasure up for his soul everlasting salvation in the kingdom of God.
4 Yea, whosoever will thrust in his sickle and reap, the same is acalled of God.
5 Therefore, if you will aask of me you shall receive; if you will knock it shall be opened unto you.
6 Now, as you have asked, behold, I say unto you, keep my commandments, and aseek to bring forth and establish the cause of bZion;
7 aSeek not for briches but for cwisdom, and behold, the dmysteries of God shall be unfolded unto you, and then shall you be made erich. Behold, he that hath feternal life is rich.
8 Verily, verily, I say unto you, even as you adesire of me so it shall be unto you; and if you desire, you shall be the means of doing much bgood in this generation.
9 Say nothing but arepentance unto this generation; keep my commandments, and assist to bring forth my work, according to my commandments, and you shall be blessed.
10 Behold thou hast a gift, and blessed art thou because of thy agift. Remember it is bsacred and cometh from above—
11 And if thou wilt ainquire, thou shalt know bmysteries which are great and marvelous; therefore thou shalt exercise thy cgift, that thou mayest find out mysteries, that thou mayest bring dmany to the knowledge of the truth, yea, econvince them of the error of their ways.
12 Make not thy gift known unto any save it be those who are of thy faith. Trifle not with asacred things.
13 If thou wilt do agood, yea, and bhold out cfaithful to the dend, thou shalt be saved in the ekingdom of God, which is the greatest of all the fgifts of God; for there is no gift greater than the gift of gsalvation.
14 Verily, verily, I say unto thee, blessed art thou for what thou hast done; for thou hast ainquired of me, and behold, as often as thou hast inquired thou hast received instruction of my Spirit. If it had not been so, thou wouldst not have come to the place where thou art at this time.
15 Behold, thou knowest that thou hast inquired of me and I did enlighten thy amind; and now I tell thee these things that thou mayest know that thou hast been benlightened by the cSpirit of truth;
16 Yea, I tell thee, that thou mayest know that there is none else save God that aknowest thy thoughts and the bintents of thy cheart.
17 I tell thee these things as a witness unto thee—that the words or the work which thou hast been writing are atrue.
18 Therefore be diligent; astand by my bservant Joseph, faithfully, in whatsoever difficult circumstances he may be for the word’s sake.
19 Admonish him in his faults, and also areceive admonition of him. bBe patient; be sober; be temperate; have patience, faith, hope and charity.
20 Behold, thou art Oliver, and I have spoken unto thee because of thy desires; therefore atreasure up these words in thy heart. Be faithful and bdiligent in keeping the commandments of God, and I will encircle thee in the arms of my clove.
21 Behold, I am Jesus Christ, the aSon of God. I am the same that came unto mine bown, and mine own received me not. I am the clight which shineth in ddarkness, and the darkness comprehendeth it not.
22 Verily, verily, I say unto you, if you desire a further witness, cast your mind upon the night that you cried unto me in your heart, that you might aknow concerning the truth of these things.
23 Did I not speak apeace to your mind concerning the matter? What greater bwitness can you have than from God?
24 And now, behold, you have received a awitness; for if I have btold you things which no man knoweth have you not received a witness?
25 And, behold, I grant unto you a gift, if you desire of me, to atranslate, even as my servant Joseph.
26 Verily, verily, I say unto you, that there are arecords which contain much of my gospel, which have been kept back because of the bwickedness of the people;
27 And now I command you, that if you have good desires—a desire to lay up atreasures for yourself in heaven—then shall you assist in bringing to light, with your gift, those parts of my bscriptures which have been hidden because of iniquity.
28 And now, behold, I give unto you, and also unto my servant Joseph, the akeys of this gift, which shall bring to light this ministry; and in the mouth of two or three bwitnesses shall every word be established.
29 Verily, verily, I say unto you, if they areject my words, and this part of my gospel and ministry, blessed are ye, for they can do no more unto you than unto me.
30 And even if they ado unto you even as they have done unto me, blessed are ye, for you shall bdwell with me in cglory.
31 But if they areject not my words, which shall be established by the btestimony which shall be given, blessed are they, and then shall ye have joy in the fruit of your labors.
32 Verily, verily, I say unto you, as I said unto my disciples, where two or three are gathered together in my name, as atouching bone thing, behold, there will I be in the cmidst of them—even so am I in the dmidst of you.
33 aFear not to do bgood, my sons, for whatsoever ye csow, that shall ye also reap; therefore, if ye sow dgood ye shall also reap good for your ereward.
34 Therefore, fear not, little aflock; do good; let earth and hell combine against you, for if ye are bbuilt upon my rock, they cannot prevail.
35 Behold, I do not condemn you; go your ways and asin no more; perform with soberness the work which I have commanded you.
36 aLook unto me in every bthought; cdoubt not, fear not.
37 aBehold the wounds which pierced my side, and also the prints of the bnails in my hands and feet; be faithful, keep my commandments, and ye shall cinherit the dkingdom of heaven. Amen.