1 I am aAlpha and Omega, bChrist the Lord; yea, even I am he, the beginning and the end, the Redeemer of the cworld.
2 I, having accomplished and afinished the will of him whose I am, even the Father, concerning me—having done this that I might bsubdue all things unto myself—
3 Retaining all apower, even to the bdestroying of Satan and his works at the cend of the world, and the last great day of judgment, which I shall pass upon the inhabitants thereof, djudging every man according to his eworks and the deeds which he hath done.
4 And surely every man must arepent or bsuffer, for I, God, am cendless.
5 Wherefore, I arevoke not the judgments which I shall pass, but woes shall go forth, weeping, bwailing and gnashing of teeth, yea, to those who are found on my cleft hand.
6 Nevertheless, it is anot written that there shall be no end to this torment, but it is written bendless ctorment.
7 Again, it is written aeternal damnation; wherefore it is more express than other scriptures, that it might work upon the hearts of the children of men, altogether for my name’s glory.
8 Wherefore, I will explain unto you this amystery, for it is meet unto you to know even as mine apostles.
9 I speak unto you that are chosen in this thing, even as one, that you may enter into my arest.
10 For, behold, the amystery of godliness, how great is it! For, behold, I am bendless, and the punishment which is given from my hand is endless cpunishment, for dEndless is my name. Wherefore—
11 aEternal punishment is God’s punishment.
12 Endless punishment is God’s punishment.
13 Wherefore, I command you to repent, and keep the acommandments which you have received by the hand of my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., in my name;
14 And it is by my almighty power that you have received them;
15 Therefore I command you to repent—repent, lest I asmite you by the rod of my mouth, and by my wrath, and by my anger, and your bsufferings be sore—how sore you know not, how exquisite you know not, yea, how hard to bear you know not.
16 For behold, I, God, have asuffered these things for all, that they bmight not suffer if they would crepent;
17 But if they would not repent they must asuffer even as I;
18 Which asuffering caused myself, even God, the greatest of all, to tremble because of pain, and to bleed at every pore, and to suffer both body and spirit—and would that I might bnot drink the bitter cup, and shrink—
19 Nevertheless, glory be to the Father, and I partook and afinished my preparations unto the children of men.
20 Wherefore, I command you again to repent, lest I ahumble you with my almighty power; and that you bconfess your sins, lest you suffer these cpunishments of which I have spoken, of which in the smallest, yea, even in the least degree you have dtasted at the time I withdrew my Spirit.
21 And I command you that you apreach naught but repentance, and show bnot these things unto the world until it is wisdom in me.
22 For they cannot abear meat now, but bmilk they must receive; wherefore, they must not know these things, lest they perish.
23 aLearn of me, and listen to my words; bwalk in the cmeekness of my Spirit, and you shall have dpeace in me.
24 I am Jesus Christ; I acame by the bwill of the Father, and I do his will.
25 And again, I command thee that thou shalt not acovet thy bneighbor’s cwife; nor seek thy neighbor’s life.
26 And again, I command thee that thou shalt not acovet thine own property, but impart it freely to the printing of the Book of Mormon, which contains the btruth and the word of God—
27 Which is my word to the aGentile, that soon it may go to the bJew, of whom the Lamanites are a cremnant, that they may believe the gospel, and look not for a dMessiah to come who has already come.
28 And again, I command thee that thou shalt apray bvocally as well as in thy heart; yea, before the world as well as in secret, in public as well as in private.
29 And thou shalt adeclare glad tidings, yea, bpublish it upon the mountains, and upon every high place, and among every people that thou shalt be permitted to see.
30 And thou shalt do it with all humility, atrusting in me, breviling not against revilers.
31 And of atenets thou shalt not talk, but thou shalt declare repentance and bfaith on the Savior, and cremission of sins by dbaptism, and by efire, yea, even the fHoly Ghost.
32 Behold, this is a great and the last acommandment which I shall give unto you concerning this matter; for this shall suffice for thy daily walk, even unto the end of thy life.
33 And misery thou shalt receive if thou wilt slight these acounsels, yea, even the destruction of thyself and property.
34 aImpart a portion of thy property, yea, even part of thy lands, and all save the support of thy bfamily.
35 Pay the adebt thou hast bcontracted with the printer. Release thyself from cbondage.
36 aLeave thy house and home, except when thou shalt desire to see thy family;
37 And aspeak freely to all; yea, preach, exhort, declare the btruth, even with a loud voice, with a sound of rejoicing, crying—Hosanna, hosanna, blessed be the name of the Lord God!
38 aPray always, and I will bpour out my Spirit upon you, and great shall be your blessing—yea, even more than if you should obtain ctreasures of earth and corruptibleness to the extent thereof.
39 Behold, canst thou read this without arejoicing and lifting up thy heart for bgladness?
40 Or canst thou run about longer as a ablind guide?
41 Or canst thou be ahumble and meek, and conduct thyself wisely before me? Yea, bcome unto me thy Savior. Amen.