1 Behold, there shall be a arecord kept among you; and in it thou shalt be called a bseer, a translator, a prophet, an capostle of Jesus Christ, an elder of the church through the will of God the Father, and the grace of your Lord Jesus Christ,
2 Being ainspired of the Holy Ghost to lay the foundation thereof, and to bbuild it up unto the most holy faith.
3 Which achurch was borganized and established in the year of your Lord eighteen hundred and thirty, in the fourth month, and on the sixth day of the month which is called April.
4 Wherefore, meaning the church, thou shalt give aheed unto all his words and bcommandments which he shall give unto you as he receiveth them, walking in all choliness before me;
5 For his aword ye shall receive, as if from mine own mouth, in all patience and faith.
6 For by doing these things the agates of hell shall not prevail against you; yea, and the Lord God will disperse the powers of bdarkness from before you, and cause the heavens to cshake for your dgood, and his name’s eglory.
7 For thus saith the Lord God: Him have I inspired to move the cause of aZion in mighty power for good, and his diligence I know, and his prayers I have heard.
8 Yea, his weeping for Zion I have seen, and I will cause that he shall mourn for her no longer; for his days of rejoicing are come unto the aremission of his sins, and the manifestations of my blessings upon his works.
9 For, behold, I will abless all those who labor in my vineyard with a mighty blessing, and they shall believe on his words, which are given him through me by the bComforter, which cmanifesteth that Jesus was dcrucified by esinful men for the sins of the fworld, yea, for the remission of sins unto the gcontrite heart.
10 Wherefore it behooveth me that he should be aordained by you, Oliver Cowdery mine apostle;
11 This being an ordinance unto you, that you are an elder under his hand, he being the afirst unto you, that you might be an elder unto this church of Christ, bearing my name—
12 And the first apreacher of this church unto the church, and before the world, yea, before the Gentiles; yea, and thus saith the Lord God, lo, lo! to the bJews also. Amen.