1 A arevelation of Jesus Christ unto his servant Joseph Smith, Jun., and six elders, as they bunited their hearts and clifted their voices on high.
2 Yea, the word of the Lord concerning his church, established in the last days for the arestoration of his people, as he has spoken by the mouth of his bprophets, and for the cgathering of his dsaints to stand upon eMount Zion, which shall be the city of fNew Jerusalem.
3 Which city shall be abuilt, beginning at the btemple lot, which is appointed by the finger of the Lord, in the western boundaries of the State of Missouri, and cdedicated by the hand of Joseph Smith, Jun., and others with whom the Lord was well pleased.
4 Verily this is the word of the Lord, that the city aNew Jerusalem shall be built by the gathering of the saints, beginning at this place, even the place of the temple, which btemple shall be creared in this dgeneration.
5 For verily this generation shall not all apass away until an bhouse shall be built unto the Lord, and a ccloud shall rest upon it, which cloud shall be even the dglory of the Lord, which shall fill the house.
6 aAnd the bsons of Moses, according to the Holy Priesthood which he received under the chand of his father-in-law, dJethro;
7 And Jethro received it under the hand of Caleb;
8 And Caleb received it under the hand of Elihu;
9 And Elihu under the hand of Jeremy;
10 And Jeremy under the hand of Gad;
11 And Gad under the hand of Esaias;
12 And Esaias received it under the hand of God.
13 aEsaias also lived in the days of Abraham, and was blessed of him—
14 Which aAbraham received the priesthood from bMelchizedek, who received it through the lineage of his fathers, even till cNoah;
15 And from Noah till aEnoch, through the lineage of their fathers;
16 And from Enoch to aAbel, who was slain by the bconspiracy of his brother, who creceived the priesthood by the commandments of God, by the hand of his father dAdam, who was the first man—
17 Which apriesthood bcontinueth in the church of God in all generations, and is without cbeginning of days or end of years.
18 And the Lord confirmed a apriesthood also upon bAaron and his cseed, throughout all their generations, which priesthood also continueth and dabideth forever with the priesthood which is after the holiest order of God.
19 And this greater apriesthood administereth the gospel and holdeth the bkey of the cmysteries of the kingdom, even the key of the dknowledge of God.
20 Therefore, in the aordinances thereof, the power of bgodliness is manifest.
21 And without the ordinances thereof, and the aauthority of the priesthood, the power of godliness is bnot manifest unto men in the flesh;
22 For without this no aman can see the face of God, even the Father, and live.
23 Now this aMoses plainly taught to the children of Israel in the wilderness, and sought diligently to bsanctify his people that they might cbehold the face of God;
24 But they ahardened their hearts and could not endure his bpresence; therefore, the Lord in his cwrath, for his danger was kindled against them, swore that they should not eenter into his rest while in the wilderness, which rest is the fulness of his glory.
25 Therefore, he took aMoses out of their midst, and the Holy bPriesthood also;
26 And the lesser apriesthood continued, which priesthood holdeth the bkey of the cministering of angels and the dpreparatory gospel;
27 Which agospel is the gospel of brepentance and of cbaptism, and the dremission of sins, and the elaw of fcarnal commandments, which the Lord in his wrath caused to continue with the house of Aaron among the children of Israel until gJohn, whom God raised up, being hfilled with the Holy Ghost from his mother’s womb.
28 For he was baptized while he was yet in his childhood, and was aordained by the angel of God at the time he was beight days old unto this power, to overthrow the kingdom of the Jews, and to cmake straight the way of the Lord before the face of his people, to prepare them for the dcoming of the Lord, in whose hand is given eall power.
29 And again, the aoffices of elder and bishop are necessary bappendages belonging unto the high priesthood.
30 And again, the offices of ateacher and deacon are necessary appendages belonging to the lesser priesthood, which priesthood was confirmed upon bAaron and his sons.
31 Therefore, as I said aconcerning the sons of Moses—for the sons of Moses and also the sons of Aaron shall offer an acceptable boffering and sacrifice in the house of the Lord, which house shall be built unto the Lord in this generation, upon the consecrated cspot as I have appointed—
32 And the sons of Moses and of Aaron shall be filled with the aglory of the Lord, upon bMount Zion in the Lord’s house, whose sons are ye; and also many whom I have called and sent forth to build up my cchurch.
33 For whoso is afaithful unto the obtaining these two bpriesthoods of which I have spoken, and the cmagnifying their calling, are dsanctified by the Spirit unto the erenewing of their bodies.
34 They become the asons of Moses and of Aaron and the bseed of cAbraham, and the church and kingdom, and the delect of God.
35 And also all they who receive this priesthood areceive me, saith the Lord;
36 For he that receiveth my servants areceiveth me;
37 And he that areceiveth me receiveth my Father;
38 And he that receiveth my Father receiveth my Father’s akingdom; therefore ball that my Father hath shall be given unto him.
39 And this is according to the aoath and covenant which belongeth to the priesthood.
40 Therefore, all those who receive the apriesthood, receive this boath and covenant of my Father, which he cannot break, neither can it be moved.
41 But whoso breaketh this acovenant after he hath received it, and altogether turneth therefrom, shall bnot have forgiveness of sins in this world nor in the world to come.
42 And wo unto all those who come not unto this priesthood which ye have received, which I now confirm upon you who are present this day, by mine own voice out of the heavens; and even I have given the heavenly hosts and mine angels acharge concerning you.
43 And I now give unto you a commandment to beware concerning yourselves, to give adiligent bheed to the words of eternal life.
44 For you shall alive by every word that proceedeth forth from the mouth of God.
45 For the aword of the Lord is truth, and whatsoever is truth is blight, and whatsoever is light is cSpirit, even the Spirit of Jesus Christ.
46 And the aSpirit giveth blight to cevery man that cometh into the world; and the Spirit enlighteneth every man through the world, that hearkeneth to the voice of the Spirit.
47 And every one that hearkeneth to the voice of the Spirit acometh unto God, even the Father.
48 And the Father ateacheth him of the covenant which he has brenewed and confirmed upon you, which is confirmed upon you for your sakes, and not for your sakes only, but for the sake of the cwhole world.
49 And the whole aworld lieth in sin, and groaneth under bdarkness and under the cbondage of sin.
50 And by this you may know they are under the abondage of sin, because they come not unto me.
51 For whoso cometh not unto me is under the abondage of sin.
52 And whoso receiveth not my voice is not acquainted with amy voice, and is not of me.
53 And by this you may know the righteous from the wicked, and that the whole aworld bgroaneth under sin and darkness even now.
54 And your aminds in times past have been bdarkened because of cunbelief, and because you have treated dlightly the things you have received—
55 Which avanity and unbelief have brought the whole church under condemnation.
56 And this condemnation resteth upon the children of aZion, even all.
57 And they shall remain under this condemnation until they repent and remember the new acovenant, even the bBook of Mormon and the cformer commandments which I have given them, not only to say, but to ddo according to that which I have written—
58 That they may bring forth afruit meet for their Father’s kingdom; otherwise there remaineth a bscourge and judgment to be poured out upon the children of Zion.
59 For shall the children of the kingdom apollute my holy land? Verily, I say unto you, Nay.
60 Verily, verily, I say unto you who now hear my awords, which are my voice, blessed are ye inasmuch as you receive these things;
61 For I will aforgive you of your sins with this commandment—that you remain bsteadfast in your minds in csolemnity and the spirit of prayer, in bearing dtestimony to all the world of those things which are communicated unto you.
62 Therefore, ago ye into all the world; and unto whatsoever place ye cannot go ye shall send, that the testimony may go from you into all the world unto every creature.
63 And as I said unto mine apostles, even so I say unto you, for you are mine aapostles, even God’s high priests; ye are they whom my Father hath bgiven me; ye are my cfriends;
64 Therefore, as I said unto mine apostles I say unto you again, that every asoul who bbelieveth on your words, and is baptized by water for the cremission of sins, shall dreceive the Holy Ghost.
65 And these asigns shall follow them that believe—
66 In my name they shall do many wonderful aworks;
67 In my aname they shall cast out devils;
68 In my name they shall aheal the sick;
69 In my name they shall aopen the eyes of the blind, and unstop the ears of the deaf;
70 And the tongue of the dumb shall speak;
71 And if any man shall administer apoison unto them it shall not hurt them;
72 And the apoison of a serpent shall not have power to harm them.
73 But a commandment I give unto them, that they shall not aboast themselves of these things, neither speak them before the world; for these things are given unto you for your profit and for salvation.
74 Verily, verily, I say unto you, they who believe not on your words, and are not abaptized in water in my name, for the bremission of their sins, that they may receive the Holy Ghost, shall be cdamned, and shall not come into my Father’s kingdom where my Father and I am.
75 And this revelation unto you, and commandment, is in force from this very hour upon all the aworld, and the gospel is unto all who have not received it.
76 But, verily I say unto all those to whom the kingdom has been given—from you it amust be bpreached unto them, that they shall repent of their former evil works; for they are to be upbraided for their evil chearts of unbelief, and your brethren in Zion for their drebellion against you at the time I sent you.
77 And again I say unto you, my friends, for from henceforth I shall call you afriends, it is expedient that I give unto you this commandment, that ye become even as my friends in days when I was with them, traveling to preach the gospel in my power;
78 For I suffered them not to have apurse or scrip, neither two coats.
79 Behold, I asend you out to bprove the world, and the laborer is worthy of his chire.
80 And any man that shall go and preach this agospel of the kingdom, and fail not to continue bfaithful in all things, shall not be weary in mind, neither darkened, neither in body, limb, nor joint; and a chair of his head shall not fall to the ground unnoticed. And they shall not go hungry, neither athirst.
81 Therefore, take ye no athought for the morrow, for what ye shall eat, or what ye shall drink, or wherewithal ye shall be clothed.
82 For, aconsider the blilies of the field, how they grow, they toil not, neither do they spin; and the kingdoms of the world, in all their glory, are not arrayed like one of these.
83 For your aFather, who is in heaven, bknoweth that you have need of all these things.
84 Therefore, let the morrow take athought for the things of itself.
85 Neither take ye thought beforehand awhat ye shall say; but btreasure up in your minds continually the words of life, and it shall be cgiven you in the very hour that portion that shall be meted unto every man.
86 Therefore, let no man among you, for this commandment is unto all the afaithful who are called of God in the church unto the ministry, from this hour take purse or scrip, that goeth forth to proclaim this gospel of the kingdom.
87 Behold, I send you out to areprove the world of all their unrighteous deeds, and to teach them of a judgment which is to come.
88 And whoso areceiveth you, there I will be also, for I will go bbefore your face. I will be on your right hand and on your left, and my cSpirit shall be in your hearts, and mine dangels round about you, to bear you up.
89 Whoso receiveth you receiveth me; and the same will feed you, and clothe you, and give you money.
90 And he who feeds you, or clothes you, or gives you money, shall in nowise alose his reward.
91 And he that doeth not these things is not my disciple; by this you may know amy disciples.
92 He that receiveth you not, go away from him alone by yourselves, and acleanse your feet even with water, pure water, whether in heat or in cold, and bear testimony of it unto your Father which is in heaven, and return not again unto that man.
93 And in whatsoever village or city ye enter, do likewise.
94 Nevertheless, search diligently and spare not; and wo unto that house, or that village or city that rejecteth you, or your words, or your testimony concerning me.
95 Wo, I say again, unto that house, or that village or city that rejecteth you, or your words, or your testimony of me;
96 For I, the aAlmighty, have laid my hands upon the nations, to bscourge them for their cwickedness.
97 And aplagues shall go forth, and they shall not be taken from the earth until I have completed my work, which shall be cut bshort in righteousness—
98 Until all shall aknow me, who remain, even from the least unto the greatest, and shall be filled with the knowledge of the Lord, and shall bsee eye to eye, and shall lift up their voice, and with the voice together csing this new song, saying:
99 The Lord hath brought again Zion;The Lord hath aredeemed his people, bIsrael,According to the celection of dgrace,Which was brought to pass by the faithAnd ecovenant of their fathers.
100 The Lord hath redeemed his people;And Satan is abound and btime is no longer.The Lord hath gathered all things in cone.The Lord hath brought down dZion from above.The Lord hath ebrought up Zion from beneath.
101 The aearth hath travailed and bbrought forth her strength;And truth is established in her bowels;And the heavens have smiled upon her;And she is clothed with the cglory of her God;For he dstands in the midst of his epeople.
102 Glory, and honor, and power, and might,Be ascribed to our God; for he is full of amercy,Justice, grace and truth, and bpeace,Forever and ever, Amen.
103 And again, verily, verily, I say unto you, it is expedient that every man who goes forth to proclaim mine everlasting gospel, that inasmuch as they have afamilies, and receive bmoney by gift, that they should send it unto them or make use of it for their benefit, as the Lord shall direct them, for thus it seemeth me good.
104 And let all those who have not families, who receive amoney, send it up unto the bishop in Zion, or unto the bishop in Ohio, that it may be consecrated for the bringing forth of the revelations and the printing thereof, and for establishing Zion.
105 And if any man shall give unto any of you a coat, or a suit, take the old and cast it unto the apoor, and go on your way rejoicing.
106 And if any man among you be astrong in the Spirit, let him take with him him that is bweak, that he may be cedified in all dmeekness, that he may become strong also.
107 Therefore, take with you those who are ordained unto the alesser priesthood, and send them bbefore you to make appointments, and to prepare the way, and to fill appointments that you yourselves are not able to fill.
108 Behold, this is the way that mine apostles, in ancient days, built up my church unto me.
109 Therefore, let every man stand in his own aoffice, and blabor in his own calling; and let not the chead say unto the feet it hath no need of the feet; for without the feet how shall the body be able to stand?
110 Also the body hath need of every amember, that all may be bedified together, that the system may be kept perfect.
111 And behold, the ahigh priests should travel, and also the elders, and also the lesser bpriests; but the cdeacons and dteachers should be appointed to ewatch over the church, to be standing ministers unto the church.
112 And the bishop, Newel K. Whitney, also should travel round about and among all the churches, searching after the poor to aadminister to their wants by bhumbling the rich and the proud.
113 He should also employ an aagent to take charge and to do his secular business as he shall direct.
114 Nevertheless, let the bishop go unto the city of New York, also to the city of Albany, and also to the city of Boston, and warn the people of those acities with the sound of the gospel, with a loud voice, of the bdesolation and utter abolishment which await them if they do reject these things.
115 For if they do reject these things the hour of their judgment is nigh, and their house shall be left unto them adesolate.
116 Let him atrust in me and he shall not be bconfounded; and a chair of his head shall not fall to the ground unnoticed.
117 And verily I say unto you, the rest of my servants, go ye forth as your circumstances shall permit, in your several callings, unto the great and notable cities and villages, areproving the world in righteousness of all their unrighteous and ungodly deeds, setting forth clearly and understandingly the desolation of babomination in the last days.
118 For, with you saith the Lord aAlmighty, I will brend their ckingdoms; I will not only dshake the earth, but the estarry heavens shall tremble.
119 For I, the Lord, have put forth my hand to exert the apowers of heaven; ye cannot see it now, yet a blittle while and ye shall see it, and know that I am, and that cI will dcome and reign with my people.
120 I am aAlpha and Omega, the beginning and the end. Amen.