1 Behold, thou wast called and chosen to awrite the Book of Mormon, and to my ministry; and I have blifted thee up out of thine afflictions, and have counseled thee, that thou hast been delivered from all thine enemies, and thou hast been cdelivered from the powers of Satan and from ddarkness!
2 Nevertheless, thou art not excusable in thy atransgressions; nevertheless, go thy way and sin no more.
3 aMagnify thine office; and after thou hast bsowed thy fields and secured them, go speedily unto the church which is in cColesville, Fayette, and Manchester, and they shall dsupport thee; and I will bless them both spiritually and etemporally;
4 But if they receive thee not, I will send upon them a acursing instead of a blessing.
5 And thou shalt continue in calling upon God in my name, and writing the things which shall be given thee by the aComforter, and expounding all scriptures unto the church.
6 And it shall be given thee in the very moment what thou shalt aspeak and bwrite, and they shall hear it, or I will send unto them a cursing instead of a blessing.
7 For thou shalt devote all thy aservice in Zion; and in this thou shalt have strength.
8 Be apatient in bafflictions, for thou shalt have many; but cendure them, for, lo, I am with thee, even unto the dend of thy days.
9 And in temporal labors thou shalt not have strength, for this is not thy calling. Attend to thy acalling and thou shalt have wherewith to magnify thine office, and to expound all scriptures, and continue in laying on of the hands and bconfirming the churches.
10 And thy brother Oliver shall continue in bearing my name before the aworld, and also to the church. And he shall not suppose that he can say enough in my cause; and lo, I am with him to the end.
11 In me he shall have glory, and not of himself, whether in weakness or in strength, whether in abonds or free;
12 And at all times, and in all places, he shall open his mouth and adeclare my gospel as with the voice of a btrump, both day and night. And I will give unto him strength such as is not known among men.
13 Require not amiracles, except I shall bcommand you, except ccasting out ddevils, ehealing the sick, and against fpoisonous serpents, and against deadly poisons;
14 And these things ye shall not do, except it be required of you by them who adesire it, that the scriptures might be bfulfilled; for ye shall do according to that which is written.
15 And in whatsoever place ye shall aenter, and they receive you not in my name, ye shall leave a cursing instead of a blessing, by casting off the bdust of your feet against them as a testimony, and cleansing your feet by the wayside.
16 And it shall come to pass that whosoever shall lay their hands upon you by violence, ye shall command to be smitten in my name; and, behold, I will asmite them according to your words, in mine own due time.
17 And whosoever shall go to law with thee shall be cursed by the law.
18 And thou shalt take no apurse nor scrip, neither staves, neither two coats, for the church shall give unto thee in the very hour what thou needest for food and for raiment, and for shoes and for money, and for scrip.
19 For thou art called to aprune my vineyard with a mighty pruning, yea, even for the last time; yea, and also all those whom thou hast bordained, and they shall do even according to this pattern. Amen.