1 aA great and marvelous work is about to come forth among the children of men.
2 Behold, I am God; give aheed to my bword, which is quick and cpowerful, dsharper than a two-edged sword, to the dividing asunder of both joints and marrow; therefore give eheed unto my word.
3 Behold, the field is awhite already to harvest; therefore, whoso desireth to reap let him thrust in his sickle with his bmight, and reap while the day lasts, that he may ctreasure up for his soul deverlasting salvation in the kingdom of God.
4 Yea, whosoever will thrust in his sickle and areap, the same is bcalled of God.
5 Therefore, if you will ask of me you shall receive; if you will aknock it shall be opened unto you.
6 Now, as you have asked, behold, I say unto you, keep my commandments, and seek to bring forth and establish the cause of aZion.
7 Seek not for ariches but for bwisdom; and, behold, the mysteries of God shall be unfolded unto you, and then shall you be made crich. Behold, he that hath eternal life is rich.
8 Verily, verily, I say unto you, even as you desire of me so it shall be done unto you; and, if you desire, you shall be the means of doing much good in this generation.
9 aSay nothing but brepentance unto this generation. Keep my commandments, and assist to bring forth my cwork, daccording to my commandments, and you shall be blessed.
10 Behold, thou hast a agift, or thou shalt have a gift if thou wilt desire of me in faith, with an bhonest heart, believing in the power of Jesus Christ, or in my power which speaketh unto thee;
11 For, behold, it is I that speak; behold, I am the alight which shineth in darkness, and by my bpower I give these words unto thee.
12 And now, verily, verily, I say unto thee, put your atrust in that bSpirit which cleadeth to do dgood—yea, to do ejustly, to walk fhumbly, to gjudge righteously; and this is my Spirit.
13 Verily, verily, I say unto you, I will impart unto you of my Spirit, which shall aenlighten your bmind, which shall fill your soul with cjoy;
14 And then shall ye know, or by this shall you know, all things whatsoever you desire of me, which are pertaining unto things of arighteousness, in faith believing in me that you shall receive.
15 Behold, I command you that you need not suppose that you are acalled to bpreach cuntil you are called.
16 Wait a little longer, until you shall have my word, my arock, my bchurch, and my gospel, that you may know of a surety my doctrine.
17 And then, behold, according to your desires, yea, even according to your afaith shall it be done unto you.
18 Keep my commandments; hold your peace; appeal unto my Spirit;
19 Yea, acleave unto me with all your heart, that you may assist in bringing to light those things of which has been spoken—yea, the btranslation of my work; be patient until you shall accomplish it.
20 Behold, this is your work, to akeep my commandments, yea, with all your might, bmind and strength.
21 Seek not to adeclare my word, but first seek to bobtain my cword, and then shall your tongue be loosed; then, if you desire, you shall have my dSpirit and my word, yea, the power of God unto the econvincing of men.
22 But now hold your apeace; study bmy word which hath gone forth among the children of men, and also cstudy my word which shall come forth among the children of men, or that which is dnow translating, yea, until you have obtained all which I shall egrant unto the children of men in this generation, and then shall all things be added thereto.
23 Behold thou art aHyrum, my son; bseek the kingdom of God, and all things shall be added according to that which is just.
24 aBuild upon my brock, which is my cgospel;
25 Deny not the spirit of arevelation, nor the spirit of bprophecy, for wo unto him that cdenieth these things;
26 Therefore, atreasure up in your bheart until the time which is in my wisdom that you shall go forth.
27 Behold, I speak unto aall who have good desires, and have thrust in their sickle to reap.
28 Behold, I am Jesus Christ, the aSon of God. I am the life and the blight of the world.
29 I am the same who came unto mine own and mine own areceived me not;
30 But verily, verily, I say unto you, that as many as receive me, to them will I give apower to become the bsons of God, even to them that cbelieve on my name. Amen.